Yet et Brian La Team BAU Sarah Jean and Jacob Doughs butchered what, 12 girls ? that was just found.
Hilary Dixon disappeared 15 years ago, buried under Sarah's mother's living room.
Think that was the last victim ? That's we're here to find out.
There's nothing about the dynamics of Sarah Jean and Jacob's relationship.
The State isn't interested in dynamics or profiles, they just want this case to go away.
They were caught, they confessed, they got the death penalty.
Do you realize that visiting death rows is not part of my part of job description ? Garcia, this will be the first serial killer couple, ever recorded for VICAP.
They slaughtered 13 young girls with blond hair hello ! Sarah Jean Doughs, Media called her "The Ice Queen", That's how they interpreted her demeanor during the trial.
You see different ? I didn't say that.
She killed her 2 year old son and 12 teenage girls.
She only confessed of the murder of her son Riley.
Well, she hasn't cooperated with any request interviewer.
If she doesn't tell now, she's going to take this story with her to old sparky.
For the next 36 hours, God will remain outside your cell.
Your personal effects will be along shortly.
You will remain in the death ward cell until the hour of execution.
Your last meal cannot exceed It will be a full moon tomorrow, is there any chance I could see it ? That's against regulations.
Open on four ! There it is.
They call themselves the women of Jacob, kinda look like his victims Creepy.
There's only 12 of them.
So we tell them they're one short ? At least.
I think we'll find Hilary Dixon was by no means Jacob's last victim.
"Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed" Genesis 9-6 In 1985, there's a string of missing girls reported in northern florida.
Police subsequently got an anonymous call from a woman claiming to have seen Jacob with some of the girls.
Did they ever found out who the anonymous woman was ? No.
Police interviewed Jacob Doughs, also present were Sarah Jean Doughs and their 2 year old son Riley.
Police was suspicious, they came back only to find that Riley had vanished.
They also eventually found the dismembered bodies of 12 missing girls, buried in the ground underneath Jacob's workshop.
Fearing that the Police was onto them, Jacob figured Riley would slow them down, so he ordered Sarah Jean to kill him and dispose of the body.
Sarah confessed to killing Riley, but never admitted her role in the deaths of the girls.
She never denided either.
According to Jacob, Sarah Jean was fully complicit in the targeting, abduction and murder of all 12 well now 13 victims.
Prison record showed that Jacob is a sexual psychopath.
and we're inconclusive on Sarah Jean, they said her demeanor was more like that of a war victims.
And as with all sexual psychopaths Jacob is obsessed with the idea of the total posession of his victims.
He showed no remorse or guilt.
Jacob saw Sarah Jean as a posession.
Somebody he controlled and dominated.
Just so we're clear, - they've agreed to these interviews ? - Yes Sir.
I'm sorry, who are you exactly ? I'm Sam Shapiro, I'm their appeals attorney.
Not only have they agreed to them, they were initially requested by them.
I can't get them a stay of execution.
Garcia, remember 75% of our communication is non-verbal.
Hotch interview Jacob, Morgan and Elle I'm not gonna get anything new, but find ##########, Jacob and Sarah Jean's home, still for demolition, take a look around.
Jacob's workshop is at the back.
He claimed, that Sarah Jean would lure the victims from Mall parking lots.
She'd invite them to smoke pot in her truck, they'd find Jacob but no pot.
They'd bring them here.
I studied this case, I'll never forget it.
That's where the workshop stood.
There was an arch, right here.
He used his workspace as a torture room.
The marks on the bodies matched many of his tools.
He used the bench saw to dismember the bodies.
Then he burried them under the floor.
Until he ran out of room.
We know that Jacob was abused as a child, what about Sarah Jean ? Her mother refused to give any testimonial in her defense, she never talked to anybody.
Maybe she's willing to talk now.
Let's go pay Sarah Jean's mother a visit.
The guards call this "Hitman's L.
A.
" Did she had any contact with Jacob ? Not until the day she's declined contact with anyone.
For her own safety, we keep her away from the other prisoners.
I hate for this woman this is fresh today as it was 15 years ago.
Open on 4 ! Accomplished work ! I've had plenty of time ! What is it you want to know ? I think it's time the mothers of those girls learn why their children had to die.
Not you ? Hello ? Anybody hello ? Mrs Mason ? Y eah ? Are you Sarah Jean Doughs'mother ? Who the hell are you ? FBI.
We're from the Behavioral Analysis Unit My daughter and her son of a bitch husband buried a 13 year old girl under my floor.
What more do you need to know ? Maam, Sarah Jean agreed to meet with our colleagues, to talk about why they killed those girls.
We'd like some background information if you don't mind.
Extensive remodeling ! Jacob built the original extension ? I see he liked arches.
Teenage girls, that's what he liked ! How was Sarah Jean growing up ? Fine, until she met Jacob.
She was shy, quiet, also smart.
And her relationship with her father ? Was Sarah Jean ever abused ? He was strict, he was a military man.
They they didn't know ######## die.
That's all history he's dead.
She's about to die.
Mrs Mason, if we better understand the dynamics of her relationships, we can get a better idea of why and what actually happened.
Dynamics Well, it might answer why Jacob never killed Sarah Jean, they shared something.
They shared pain.
How strict was your husband ? How did he discipline Sarah Jean, was he physical ? He was a mean bastard, but he only hurt me ! Why didn't you leave ? Because we had no place to go.
An anonymous caller tipped the police off about Jacob, was it you ? No, but I know who it was.
This came this morning.
What's it say ? It's a statement of innocence.
A doctor, so young ! Your mother must be very proud.
Sarah Jean ! Sarah Jean ! You look so fine baby case ! This was meant to be, our names will live for ever ! Let's go ! - It's a beautiful thing ! - Let's go ! Isn't it a beautiful thing ? You designed that to happen.
Did you learn anything, agent ? Do you want to see a trick ? Pick a card ! You're diagnosed as psychopath.
Sexual psychopath.
Pick a card.
How many other girls did you kill ? Do you ever smile ? It's hard to trust a guy who never smiles.
So are there more bodies ? If I told you that, what would I have left for myself ? You can help these families get closure before you die.
Pass.
Come on, just one trick.
It's a good one ! Pick a card, come on ! Just one card So what do you see in Jacob ? Freedom.
Freedom from what ? - Garcia - Hey, it's Elle.
- Elle ! - I need Gideon please.
Yeah, I'll patch you through.
Gideon, it's Elle.
She says it's urgent.
We're at the mother's house, she gave me a letter I want to read to you.
Read the letter Elle.
"Mom, I know how difficult this must be," "this between us were never what they should be - between a mother and a daughter" - That is a private letter ! "I want you to know that the best part of me, the most important part of me, is now now in a better place than I will ever be.
" Stop it ! "I'm responsible for the deaths of those girls, I inflected my duty as a woman and as a mother" Take it easy.
You neglected your duty ? Doesn't make you responsible.
You didn't kill those girls.
Why didn't you say this in court ? I knew he brought in one back to his workshop.
It's a long way from knowing he was killing them.
They died as a result of my neglect.
This letter suggests to me, that an innocent woman is about to be executed for crime she did not commit.
They died as a result of my neglect.
This letter suggests to me, that an innocent woman is about to be executed for crime she did not commit.
I can tell you right now it's not enough to get a stay.
You want facts, Reid.
Human sexuality is complex dynamic of three components : biological, physiological and emotional.
Jacob's needs were informed by the emotional and sexual abuse that he received at the hand of his mother.
The long term and repetitive abuse informed the template of his love map.
Something we're afraid was his signature.
Jacob was an only child, Thus he was alone when the abuse occured, so in order for him to fulfill his fantasy, he's got to be alone with his victims.
If I told you that, what would I have left for myself ? He said "myself", if Sarah Jean was present, it would have destroyed his fantasy.
She confessed to killing her son.
Yes, true.
But we're also convinced that she was the anonymous caller that made the phone call that nailed Jacob.
Guilt-ridden.
Filled with remorse, she called the police.
It's not the profile of a woman who would then kill her child.
What else do you need ? - Evidence If we prove Jacob killed Riley, would that get a stay ? Absolutely.
She protects the painting, she protects the boy.
What ? Paintings are a statement.
We need to figure out what they say.
Tension is mounting here as the FBI BAU team presence means that they are conducting a series of death bed interviews, in an attempt to find if there are any more victims.
Now it is rumored, they're calling for a stay of execution.
Who the hell told them that ? It doesn't matter, I don't see Hotch getting anything out of Jacob.
Maybe I can help.
What are you doing ? Just get Hotch in here.
Well, I know, I know, these are gonna kill me.
Come on Hotch, that was funny ! Who are you ? My friends call me JJ.
- Well, hello - Sit down Sit down.
Hello JJ You're not my friend, You can call me Jennifer.
Sorry about before, breaking your ear thing.
You have a lovely smile.
Thank you.
But you don't smile much.
Do you ? What's your excuse ? I took the liberty of getting these from your cell.
No those are private.
Thank you.
Riley running free, The river.
Falling positive energy maybe.
Twelve roses, one for each girl Jacob killed.
Twelve, not thirteen.
We found number thirteen.
You don't know about her.
- You don't really know about any of them.
- I never said I did.
That is a nice touch bringing in the hottie.
You really want to know if there was others, don't you ? I'll tell you what : drove book, You win, - I'll give you another girl.
- So there are more.
Do we have a bet ? What if you win ? I get to smell - Jennifer's hair.
- No.
Oh come on, all she has to do is lean over - and I get to smell her hair.
- No.
I thought you wanted answers ! Go to hell.
It's okay, Hotch.
You see that ? It's okay, Hotch.
JJ deals, can't let you deal from own deck.
You confessed to kiling Riley, why would you lie about killing your own son ? I didn't.
Where's the body ? Do you have any children ? That's irrelevant.
Do you carry pictures of your children agent Gideon ? We're getting off point.
Are we ? You know how long it's been since I could actually play with someone ? All I've had is solitary.
- Cards ? - Two.
I think I'll play these.
How old would your son be now ? Seventeen ? Imagine what he could have become.
Jacob put an end at any chance of that.
Does this strain of your work affect your marriage ? I'm not married.
You were right ? Why would you still be protecting Jacob ? Did you divorce because of putting people like me away ? I think you're innocent.
We're all guilty of something.
But it's it's our children that suffers for our sins, didn't they ? You'd have to ask him.
How old is he ? He's 25.
Do you have a picture of him ? In my office.
You don't carry it with you, to protect him.
You leave him somewhere safe.
Somewhere clean.
You killed Riley to protect him from Jacob.
I protect my son as you protect yours.
Where's he burried ? All that matters is that he's safe.
Where is he ? He's in a better place.
The chaplain is here to see you.
What do you got ? I got Aces and eights, two pairs.
The dead man's hand, I should have had that, but then of course I would have lost.
Straight to the Jack.
And unless rules of poker have changed since I've been in here, you loose.
Sorry.
Full house, Aces over eigths.
Man ! You would have been so nice ! But to answer your questions, there are no other bodies.
Jason, The governer just commanded a stay of execution to Sarah Jean.
What ? - They can't do that ! - They don't believe she killed your son.
She killed him ! I can tell you exactly where he's burried ! It's got to be here, Jacob built this gazebo.
We've searched everywhere else.
The workshop and extension and dead Mason's house head arches.
They now he had to have built this for Riley.
We've got something here ! Guys, the body's ID is coming through.
It's not Riley Doughs, it's Ashley Farley.
She was fourteen when she was killed.
Why would Jacob give us another victim ? It completely goes against his need for power, manipulation and control.
Taking the secret of an old victim to his grave satisfies that need.
Why give it up if he wants the payoff ? Sarah Jean is the payoff, Sarah Jean would be his last victim.
That'd be the ultimate control.
Gideon check this out, guess who was for the Farley's house cleaner ? My last supper.
Like some ? Look, it came with a toy ! May I sit down ? Please.
Ashley Farley.
You cleaned her parent's house, remember.
Farley We found her buried under the children's gazebo.
At another house Jacob renovated.
He put her through.
I swear I've brought her home to that bastard.
Thanks, Doc.
You lied to me, it wasn't Riley.
- It wasn't ? - She was 14 year old.
Really pretty.
How many others are there ? I only have a few hours left, and though I like and and I do like you, I'd like to be alone now.
Good meeting you Hotch.
- I'm not done yet - Me neither.
behind weeds, the river.
This here, what is this ? A basket ? The boy on that painting is what, 10 ? Maybe more ? Is that how you see him or how he is ? I only have a few hours left.
I'm respectfully asking you to leave.
Where is he ? Where is Riley ? Please let agent Gideon out.
Open four ! Garcia, pull up the interview with Sarah Jean.
- What is it ? - Exodus 2-3 Moses.
Abraham's son was supposed to be drown, Moses'mother, sent him down the Nile on a basket.
Where's he burried ? All that matters is that he's safe.
- Where is he ? - He's in a better place.
Jacob didn't buried Riley anywhere.
Sarah Jean had already taken care of him.
Then she did kill him.
No, she sent him somewhere where she believed he'd be safe.
He's alive ! We're running out of time.
This is the proof we need to save Sarah Jean.
Check all police and hospital records dating back to september 1990.
You know you should check local newspapers to see if anyone reported any abandonned babies.
I don't give a damn where the governer is, we have found proof that Sarah Jean is innocent.
She really only had a maximum of 3 hours between police visits.
It was 4pm, so traffic was pretty heavy, and whatever she did with Riley it had to be local.
No.
Why doesn't she just tell us where Riley is ? She protected him for as long as Jacob is alive.
Look, they're being executed within an hour of each other, I hope do we enough have finding him in time.
It's quite possible she doesn't know where he is anyway.
No, she'd know.
We got to get into her cell.
Did you come to see the show ? We need to get into Sarah Jean's cell.
- I believe the proof-- - I can't do that ! All official lines of communication are now over.
- I just need 5 minutes - Agent ! They want the memory of these two individuals erased.
Five minutes, that's all I need.
- Five minutes.
- Thank you.
I thought it was against regulations.
Well don't tell anybody.
It's cold.
You need a jacket, - Vincent give me your jacket.
- Oh no I'm fine, really.
It makes me feel, you know alive.
How are your sons Warren ? - They're good.
- good.
- Darren just graduated.
- Yeah.
Do you ever tell them you about the man in the moon ? Sure.
I used to tell Riley, that no matter where we were, the man in the moon would be looking down on both of us.
We should get back.
Sarah.
If there's something you know that can save you.
Thank you Warren.
This has been wonderful.
Your kindness to me.
I thank you.
That's Riley, that's her son, isn't it ? Somebody tell me it's him, please.
JJ circulate this photo to the press, see if anybody recognizes this boy.
Do I say who we think he is ? No just put him out with the missing persons.
Okay.
What does that mean ? Means Jacob is being moved to the execution chamber.
Sarah Jean ! I'll be waiting for you ! You wish to make your peace for God, Jacob ? I've made my peace 18 times.
And each one was prettier than him.
Why take them with you Jacob ? You know why.
Take him down.
You don't mind gentlemen.
This is one walk I can make myself.
Sarah Jean ! I told you we'd be together forever ! He's just confessed to killing There's nothing I can do.
Are you ready Sarah Jean ? I'm gonna ride the lightning baby ! She cut around the photos so no one can read the text.
He was 2 when he disappeared, this boy is 16 or 17, if it's Riley, it would mean it's a recent photo.
Once Jacob's dead, do you think Sarah Jean will tell us if this is Riley ? Any last words ? Bring it on ! Riley ! You lose ! No ! Jacob's gone He's no longer any threat to Riley.
Tell me where he is.
We can stop this madness.
There's no greater gift to life, than that have being a parent.
As so many of us abuse and squander that gift.
You can change that right now.
I made my decision 15 years ago.
This is never been about Jacob.
It's always been about Riley.
That's why I can't let you do this ! This ain't about you and me.
I know it isn't.
That's why I'm not gonna let Riley lose the greatest gift he never knew he had.
But that is my gift to him, and I'll not let you destroy that ! All the people Jacob allowed Sarah Jean to know were the family she claimed for.
Sarah Jean worked for wealthy families, all of them lived in Hampton, let's go over all the families in the state of Florida who were looking to adopt in 1990 and let's see how many lived in Hampton.
Families looking to adopt, hundreds.
- How many from Hampton ? - 3 Families : the Jamses, The Kopples and the Sheffields.
Looks like the Sheffields removed themselves from the list in october 1990 and then move out to Hampton.
That's one month Riley vanished, where did they go ? Keystone Heights.
We got a match on the photo, he was on local daily news.
Call Morgan and Elle, tell them to go to the Sheffield's house.
Byron Sheffield.
Cello prodigy, 17 year old Byron Sheffield won a scolarship to play cello.
- How many miles to Keystone Heights ? - Way too many.
- We're never gonna make it in time.
- Not if you keep running your mouth ! You'd better buckle up ! We found him Warren Diehl, we found her son.
Unless I receive an official stay of execution from the governor, I'm dutied to undersee this trough.
My son is dead Agent Gideon.
I have agents on the way to his house as we speak.
and the governor is standing by.
I think you're not accepting the truth.
I can't, this isn't it.
Agents are within minutes of finding her son, alive.
I am truly sorry.
Hold here.
What wouldn't you do for your son to give him a life you could never hope to dream of ? I am at peace in the knowledge, that my son is free to be whatever he chooses to be.
If he knew who you were, Do you think he choosed to allow you to walk in there ? If he knew who his parents were, can you imagine the damage my legacy would leave him ? Can you imagine what he would feel ? knowing his mother spent 15 years on death row, innocent of all charges, just so he could be free of her.
Not me.
Jacob.
It isn't just my life you have in your hands, that's Riley's life too.
You have the chance to save my son's life.
I choose to save yours too.
My life ended the day I met Jacob.
Garcia, we made it ! Hello, open up FBI ! Hello ! Garcia, tell Gideon we're here.
Yeah but I'm afraid nobody else is.
Garcia patch us through ! Gideon, I've got Elle, she says they're at the Sheffield's house.
It's time.
Take your hands off her.
Tell Morgan to kick the door to enter if he has to you get in the house whatever it takes.
FBI ! I said take your hands off her.
- Agent Gideon - A few moments, please.
FBI ! Morgan Stay inside.
Can I help you ? Frank Sheffield ? - What this is about ? - This is about your son.
My son ? Is that your son in the car ? I don't understand, what this is about, tell me.
- We're federal agents - Hey Hotch ! We got him, he's here, what do we do ? Gideon they've got him, what are we doing ? I am standing here because of choices I made, Don't let my son be Jacob's last victim.
Let me go Let us both go.
Tell Morgan it's not her son, that we made a mistake.
Hey Derek, Wait there Sir.
Mr Sheffield, I'm I'm very sorry we have the wrong house.
I apologize for any inconvenience.
Agent ! Thank you.
Would it be too much to ask if yours is the last face I see ? Albert Pine said : What we do for ourselves dies with us.
What we do for others and the world remains and is immortal.