It so cool we got in here.
Ok.
You two have fun.
Where you been? Where did you say the bathroom was? Upstairs.
Second door on the lt.
I'll be right back.
Man: You see her? Ingrid? Ingrid? Hey, you guys seen ingd? What are you doing out of your bunker? I was on my way to file the things that i file.
Excuse me.
Hi.
I'm sean, hey.
Derek.
You must be looking for your brother.
Yeah.
Right this way.
Brother as in that's hotch's brother? Maybe hotch is adopted.
So, georgetown law? You're doing big things.
Congratulations.
Thanks.
Top of the stairs.
Nock on door.]
Come in.
Sean, hey.
Let me call you back.
Hey.
This is a surise.
Haven't cut your hair since thanksgiving.
That's what you said at christmas.
Sorry.
Um it's your first time here, let me give you the ur.
Yeah, i can't stay long.
I'm working the lunch shift.
Well, not for long.
Congratulations.
You must be pretty excited.
I'm not going to georgetown.
What? I changed my mind.
I got this job offer to work at this restaurant in new york.
It's not a chef, but it's under the right ones.
I can learn from them.
What are you talking about? I made up my mind.
Sean, you've always wanted to be a lawyer.
Just like dad, ju like me.
And look what it godad, huh? Heart attack.
47.
I think i'm doing ok.
Look, if it's about being in new york, nyu's got a great law school.
Columbia, fordham.
I don't ink you're hearing me.
All i'm asking you to do is think it through, you know? The logical thing is for you to go to georgetown.
I have to trust my instincts.
Look, sean, it's typical for someone who lost his father at a young age and you know what? You're not him.
Then whyre you here? That's a really good question.
Here he comes.
That's hotch's brother? Uh-huh.
I don't see it.
Sean, listen to me.
All i'm saying is you're 25 years old.
You know what, don't profile me, aaron.
Now, i see it.
Terra mesa, new mexico.
university.
No signs of sexual assault, and no sign of theft.
Minimal defensive wounds.
One of them was impaled on a 6-foot wooden pole.
Whew! Who'd want to torture They weren't tied up and no one escaped? No single unsub could've exerted this much control over so many people.
So you think there was mo than two.
I think we're looking at a pack.
A pack? in unison, as in, nature of the group dynamic, dictates the pack's survival is dependent on their ability to hunt successfully.
And as in nature of pack will keep on killing until it runs out of prey or is stopped.
Stopped by what? ???? Nietzsche wrote, the individual has always had to struggle to keep from being overwhmed by the tribe.
Sheriff, i'm special agent hotchner.
The are agents reid and gideon.
I was hoping there were more of you.
The other agents went straight to the station house to look at the victim's files.
Has forensics had any luck? County csu went through for prints and trace evidence.
They said with all the workmen trampling through here, looking at footprints would be a waste.
Come on.
The bodies were almost completely skinned, yet there's so little blood.
I think i know why.
The unsub avoided areas of skin on the wrists and the throat.
Areas where the veins and arteries are closest to the surface.
Why would they do that? They didn't want them to ble o.
These kids were skinned alive.
Two cases of beer, two sleeping bags.
There's a third sleeping bag upstairs.
Everything you need for a night of teenage romance.
It's unlikely the two couples brought a fifth wheel to take notes.
Sheriff, it's possible there was a third girl here.
A sixth victim.
I'll get my deputies to canvass the areas.
See if anybody saw a girl.
You said there was another one outside? Yeah.
He was like the others.
Coroner said from the amount of blood, he was alive when they impaled him.
I know this is gonna sound strange, but the way the victims were flayed alive, mutilated, and now the impalement display of this last victim what? These were all war rituals of the native erican plains indians.
That mean something to you, sheriff? I'll say, it does.
Everything you see around us is apache land.
This whole basin's a sacred burial ground.
And was the sight of a number of massacres, as i understand.
So this development is on their land? It was their land.
But they didn't have the money or the inclination to build on it, so the town seized half of.
Yeah, last year, the supreme court ruled cities could use imminent domain authority to seize and repossess undeveloped private land for ivate velopment.
And now the town is looking for investors to build on the other half.
The apache are fighting it, of course, in urt.
Er been any violence until now? Nothing like this.
You know anybody on the reservation capable of this? I don't know.
Reservation's federal jurisdiction.
Sounds like where we need to go.
Go call garcia.
See what she can find.
Ok, one order of bad guys on the apache reservation coming right up.
Let's hear it.
Apparentlythere was a militant group there in the 70s called the irm.
Any of them still around? No.
There's a guy on the reservation now who's been locked up more than a few times for demonstrations, resisting arrest.
Mostly political protest type stuff.
Yowsa, get this.
His father was killed in a shootout with federal agent wounded knee.
His name, njamin blackwolf.
The son, john blackwolf.
Thanks, garcia.
Blackwolf? John blackwolf? You know him? Indian activist.
He's been in a little trouble.
Related to his activism, but nothing violent.
Not around here.
Should we call the reservation police and alert them? I don't think that's a good idea.
Why not? Blackwolf is the reservation police.
Jane bear, these are fbi agents.
Gideon.
Hello.
Hotchner how do you do? And reid.
Miss bear ishe president of the tribal council and principal of the reservation school.
President and the principal.
You must be a busy woman.
We'rout here on our own, agent gideon.
We all do our part.
Is, uh john inside? Is this about the terra mesa killings? They just want to talk to him.
John blackwolf has done more to help his tribe than anyone.
Hell, jim, how many times have you called him in to find lost hikers? How many drunken camrs has he tracked down for the park service? John is a peaceful man who would not hesitate to defend this tribe with force if attacked.
What does this have to do with terra mesa? Well, a lot, if john considers the building of the terra mesa development on apache land to be an attack.
The developers have paid a lot of families to leave the reservation.
So many families have gone now that we can barely fill a single class.
Forcing the dene, the apache nation, to abandon their homes and live in government controlled internment camps.
Does anybody know the last tribe to surrender to the american government? It was the chiricahua apache.
And does anybody know the name of the last leader of the apaches? Geronimo.
That's right.
He was caught by the u.
s.
Army 5 times, but the ga'he had given him so much strength he escaped each time.
Samuel.
Yes? Tell the men from the fbi who the ga'he are.
The ga'he are mighty spirits who dwell in desert caves.
Reid.
Is your name samuel? Sorry.
Are the ga'he good spirits or bad spirits? Th're both.
Like man.
I'll take over for you, john.
Mr.
Blackwolf, i'm agent gideon.
These are agents hotchner and reid.
You look like a college professor.
You look like a student.
You you look like fbi.
We're with the behavioral analysis unit.
Profilers should know better.
How's that? We don't do massacres.
Yodo.
Me, personally your government.
Mr.
Blackwolf, 'd like for you take a look at these photos and help us figure out how these kids were killed.
You're not asking beuse i'm a cop.
No.
We're asking because you're an expert on native american culture.
I don't base my opinion on pictures, mr.
Hotchner.
I have to walk the ground.
We should start inside.
Forensics says the outside's been contaminated from all the construction traffic.
Of all the native american tribes, the apache are most renowned for their tracking ability.
It's said they can track a man or animal through any condition by nicing simply the slightest disturbance in the environment.
He's profiling the dirt.
I notice you don't carry a gun.
What? Ask agent hotchner there.
He's the real gun hand.
Y do you say that? You carry two guns.
The maximum distance an attacker with a knife can close in the time it takes to react, draw your sidearm and fire is feet.
Inside 21 feet, i win.
Outside, i have other options besides shooting a man.
Like negotiating.
Like running.
Why do you say i carry two guns? Your right instep print's heaer than your left.
And since you dot appear to have a clubbed right foot you can't tell that from my footprints.
Ere's no perceptible difference between them.
Your problem isn't with your prints.
It's with your perception.
Wh do u see? There's a saying.
Once too much blood has been spilled on the same ground, that ground develops a thirst for it.
This is all consistent with native american warfare rituals, but it's not apache.
Whoever did this carried out the most brutal practices of the apache.
Navajo, comanche, pueblo.
And sioux.
No one tribe every did them all.
Not like this.
Real indians would know that.
This wasn't indians.
And if you wanto figure out who did this, it might help to know there was a sixth person in the house.
Why do you say that? Female.
90, 95 pounds.
Size 6 shoe.
Fallen arches.
She was walking alone, when she was ambushed by two men.
We also believe there were at least three suspects.
Three? Yeah.
Two over here plus at least six over there.
Because while these two carried this girl, struling to their vehicle to the east, at least six others ran single file to hide their numbers from the west.
So you're saying that there were eight? At least.
And one hostage.
You waed to see how i behave at the scene of therime, you can at least tell me how i did.
You're lack of anmotional reaction at seeing the crimes leads me to believe you'rennocent.
A guilty man would've feigned disgust? Exactly.
Do you know what counting coup is? No.
The apache knew they could easily prove their superiority by killing many of the enemy tribe.
But they also knew killings would start a fierce blood feud which would result in t waste of lives and resources.
Makes sense.
So the apache proved their superiority by counting coup.
Stealthily stealing property, usually horses, from right under the nose of their enemy.
To the apache, killing, unless absolutely necessary, was a sign of stupidity.
And weakness.
Ifhis your way of saying you're not the killer, we already know that.
So why am i still talking to you? Hotch.
So if there was another girl out there, no one's reported her missing.
None of the papers have received any claims of reonsibility or ranm demands.
'D like for you to stay and help with the profile briefing.
If it'll keep the fbi off the reservation, i'll stay.
Each torture ritual had specific religious significance, but only to the tribe that pcticed it.
It's highly unlikely that any one tribe would mix them all together like this.
Meaning? Whoever did this obviously had knowledge of native american culture, but they had absolutely no practical understanding of it.
What we know, ishis pack shares a singular vision whether they share religious faith, racist ideology, or political manifesto, each member of this unit has surrendered its individual identity to the group.
It's the act of kidnapping that reveals the nature of this pack.
From the german red brige to the munich olympics to iraqi insurgence.
The act of kidnapping is a characteristic of political terrorist groups.
We could be looking for a domestic terrorist organization like the symonese liberation army that kidnapped patty hearst.
But these are indians, right? I seriously doubt it.
The torture and mutilation you see here are very confused imitations of warfare practiced by native american tribes.
Are you trying to tell us that indians wouldn't be so brutal? No.
I'm saying that indians wouldn't be so confud.
Can we really be sure he's right? Well, i'm fairly certain blackwolf wasn't in on it, but you don't need to be einstein to realize these people were indians, or people that made it look like indians.
Why would anyone want to frame these indians possibly to turn public opinion against them.
Sheriff, you mentioned the apache were fighting the land grab in court.
Public opinion would be a significant factor.
Is there anyone besides the developers who might be vehemently opposed to the indians getting the land back? The adu.
Who's that? American defense union.
Founded by a local businessman named roy minton.
They're like the minute men who control the borders, only these guys blame everything on the indians.
Who are the members? Mion's people are mostly white, construction workers, building supply vendors.
Working class people that believe indians are standing in the way of progress.
And commerce.
Whether they feel the indians are standing in the way of progress or profit, or they're just nuine racists, i think minton and the adu are strong suspects.
Let's bring minton in.
Mr.
Minton, any idea who might be behind these killings? The indians have a history of violent behavior.
Pecially the apaches.
Did you know that they used to kill white settlers, decapitate the bodies, put their victims heads on wooden pikes outside their houses? That was a long time ago.
You still seem pretty upset about it.
That was the other night.
My family's beenealing with the apache for 150 years.
You know, your rhetoric sounds just hateful enough to justify violence.
We don't need to stoop to their level.
We're fighting the indians in court.
Is that right? Then why all the guns, roy? Our recordshow that your 200 members carry over 450 firearms.
We're simply exercising our constitutional right under the second amendme.
We have the right to defend ourselves.
I don't think so.
That's n self defense.
That's plain paranoid.
Not anymore.
If minton is as fanatical as he pretends to be, he wouldn't file lawsuits.
Or organize labor unions.
The indians are keepg minton and the members of the adu fr making a lot of money on the development and construction of the apache land.
I agree.
He's using racist ideology to cover simple greed.
Sheriff, i'd like you to put minton under surveillance.
You think he's guilty? Not likely, but we've just given minton reason to believe that some faction of the adu may have taken matters into their own hands, and minton may lead us to them.
It's garcia.
Hey, what have you got? I have an ncic hit on one of the prints on the sliding glass door.
Ingrid griesen, family moved her here two years ago from texas.
Where they require fingerprints for driver's license applications.
She wasn't among the victims on the scene.
Ok.
Nice job.
Think we might have found our sixth victim.
How old was ingrid when your wife passed away? And then, you raised her on your own? Why didn'tou report your daughter as missing, mr.
Griesen? I didn't know she was missing.
She has her own place.
She has her own life at school.
Her own friends.
When was the last time you spoke to her? Couple weeks ago.
She's been going through a phase the past couple of months.
Distancing herself.
Has anyone threatened ingrid? Not that i know of.
Have you received any menang phone calls or seen anyone in the neighborhood? Anything that's been unusual at all.
No.
Nothing like that.
We have reason to believe that people who kidnapped your daughter may be politically motivated.
They killethose kids, and they kidnapped ingrid in the name of their cause.
Think the first thing, or the best thing you can do to help your daughter is for you to go on the news.
How will that help ingrid? If we can personalize ingrid to the public, the public will take any harm that comes to her at the hands of the kidnappers personally.
Hurting her would hurt their cause.
That'll stop them from killing her? It might.
Ok.
Hey.
So? Fathers blame themselves when a child is kidnapped.
As irrational as it is, it's typical.
This guy didn't do that, why not? Well, in these situations, innocentarents don't hide their feelgs of guilt, while guilty parents do.
So we're thinking this guy's guilty? Of something.
Ingrid is my only child.
She's my whole life.
Please return ingrid to me.
Talk to her, and you'll see, she's a sweet child.
She's never hurt you have to see this.
anything you need.
Contact me directly.
I will try what do we do? everything i can to help.
We get rid of her.
Whatever it takes.
I'm asking you, please, leher go.
We've got a caller on the line.
Has griesen been prepped.
Caller doesn't want to speak to griesen.
In fact, he doesn't want griesen to know at he's even calling.
This is special ent aaron hotchner.
Yeah.
We have ingrid griesen.
We'll turn ourselves and the girl in under one condition.
I'm listening.
You don't tell griesen about it.
What does it matter to you what i tell griesen? Because he paid us to kidnap her.
Don't move! Hey, don't shoot.
Where's the girl? She's in the van.
Got her.
Ingrid? My name is elle.
I'm with the fbi.
Are you ok? Just tell me what happened.
Peter griesen hired us.
He knew about our records, but he said he'd ge us a chance.
Two weeks ago, he called us into his office, said he had some off the clock work for us.
What kind of work? He said his daughter was in tuble.
He said he wanted us to follow her, grab her, and take her to the motel.
You didn't question his motives? Well, of course, we did.
But then he gave us half theoney.
He said if we harmed her accidental or otherwise, he'dake sure we paid for it.
So he wanted you to kidnap her but not hurt her.
Yeah.
So we grabbed her, took her to the motel, then we called griesen, and he said co by in the morning.
But he didn't show.
What about the killings? We didn't know anything about that.
We saw it on the news the next morning.
We called mr.
Griesen, he said, hold tight, he'd come around in the afternoon, but he didn't show, so, then the next night, he's on the news.
And he's talking about kidnappers, and look, man we may be dumb, all right? We're not stupid.
I made the call right then.
You kidnapped the girl, but then you leave just minutes before someone else comes and kills those kids.
We didn't kill them kids.
We was with her the whole time since.
You can ask her.
Well, that's quite the story.
Thing is, they're telling exactly the same one.
I believe it's the truth.
Why'd you kidnap your own daughter? You kidnapped your daughter and coincidentally saved her own life? Right now, at the very least, it looks like you had prior knowledge of the killings.
And at worst i had nothing to do with the murders.
You paid leland and van owen to kidnap ingridwhy? I want my phone call.
Ifhat you're saying is true, it seems likely your daughter was somehow involved in these killings.
She had nothing to do with it.
You stay the hell away from her! I want the names of all your daughter's friends at school.
Boyfriends.
I want her class schedule.
Ingrid's very private.
We have 5 dead kids.
Tortured, mutilated, and murdered.
And all we have to go on is you and your daughter.
Do the math! It's garcia.
I got this.
You re? Yeah, yeah.
All right.
Yeah.
Talk to me.
Hello, ingrid.
I'm dr.
Spencer reid.
I'm with the fbi, and i was wondering if you could griesen, ingrid.
Excuse me? Griesen, ingrid.
Doesn't look like minton or the adu were part of it.
My men have been looking at him and his friends.
Checking on alibis.
Nothing.
The only thing i'm certain of is that peter griesen is trying to protect his daughter.
Hotchner.
Ingrid isn't catatonic anymore.
But she's answering evy question with only her name and social security number.
Like a prisoner of war.
There's more.
Garcia did some checking.
Ingrid hasn't been enrolled in school for over a year.
She had good grades.
Just suddenly dropped out and vacated her campus apartment.
She left no forwarding, hotch.
We have no idea where or how she's been living.
Thanks.
I need to see ter griesen's phone records.
How long has your daughter been in a cult? Unit 4, i'm still on a code 6 outside the minton residence.
Looks like everyone's gone to bed.
Over.
10-4, patrol.
Base out.
About a month ago, you placed a call to a psychiatrist in boulder named dr.
Richard frank.
He's a deprogrammer, and his specialty is getting kids out of cults.
Your daughter joined a dangerous cult.
And you couldn't convince her to leave, so you had her kidnapped.
Now you're protecting her because you think ingrid and her cult killed those kids, and you're probably right.
There's another killing.
A family of 5 was slaughtered in exactly the same way as the terra mesa killings, and among the dead are three girls.
Ages 5, 8, and 1 legally, this could go a long way in distancing your daughter from the others.
If ingrid had a change of heart, a case could be made for brainwashing or even temporary insanity.
Mr.
Griesen we need you to tell us what you know about ingrid's situation.
It's all my fault.
Ever since her mother died, i've done everything i could for her.
Somehow i left her vulnerable to these people.
Given the wrong circumstances, this could happen to anyone's child.
Tell us what happened.
Ingrid was in her first semester.
She started acting strange.
She hardly visited anymore, when she did, she was different.
How? How was she different? The way she spoke.
She kept repeating these words.
This jargon.
I didn't know where she was getting it.
And she just disappeared.
Cults commonly have theirwn language.
They invent or redefine certn words only the cult members understand.
It's a way of isolating the members from outsiders.
It's a very powerful form of thought control.
If you could help us identify some of e key word perhaps we could get ingrid talking.
She said i was a trespasser.
That i had no right to be here.
New mexico? In the desert.
She said grandfather had taught her the ways of, oh, what was the word? Ofahi, gaji ga'he.
Yes.
That's right.
Thank you.
We're looking for the cult leader.
Typically men between the age of 25 and 35 with a high level of intelligence.
Sociopathic underachiever, with an extremely abusive childhood.
And obviously someone with an interest in and affinity for apache culture and rituals.
Look for males with criminal records for lesser type crimes.
Drug possession, petty theft.
What about school records? The victims from the first crime scene was terra mesa university.
Maybe the leader was there, too.
That's great.
Look for students who stied native american cultures extensively.
We need to do it all.
With this second strike, it could be a spree.
Sorry about your man, jimmy.
I appreciate that.
That her? She won't give us anything but her name and her social.
Thanks.
Ok.
They're ready.
Everybody out.
Come with me.
My friend wants to show y something.
Ingrid, name is john blackwolf.
I know who you are.
You're the son of benjamin blackwolf.
The chiricahua apache.
Come with me.
What do you think happened here, ingrid? I think three little trespassers met the vengeful blade of the tribe.
Whatribe would that be? There are only two peoples.
The apache knows who trespass against us.
You're not apache, ingrid.
No.
You are not apache.
Not anymore.
Grandfather tested me.
He sent me to the desert mountains to be blessed by the ga'he.
The ga'he have brought grandfather back to us to build his new tribe.
To reclaim the sacred land for the apache.
Where is grandfather? Did grandfather ever tell you where the name apache comes from? It comes from the yuni word, apachu.
It means enemy.
And if grandfather knew the first thing about the real apache, he would've taught you to refer to us as the dene.
It means, the people.
Grandfather said that you and all the living apache are like the jews of old.
Lost and wandering the desert in search of their messiah.
And he has the dene don't believe in a messiah.
You were lied to, ingrid.
The ga'he said don't use a word you don't understand.
The ga'he are not magic fairies.
They're not gods as you understand them.
This is not the blood of an enemy! This is the blood of a little girl just like you are.
You've been fed bits and pieces of a culture you don't understand.
You don't know.
What we do know is you've been manipulated and exploited by a very disturbed individual.
You're a liar.
You have disavowed your ancestors.
Only those who dwell at the deadlands deserve to live.
The deadlands are on the southern edge of the western tract.
You said cults like this se out remote places, yes? They like to isolate their followers and give them freedom to create their own societies.
Ok.
I goit.
It doesn't get any more remote than the deadlands.
How big an area is this place? About 100 square miles.
We'll need to narrow it down.
We might just have our cult leader.
It's a guy named jackson cally.
He was expelled from tmu six months before the others.
What for? Mescaline.
Peyote.
Terra mesa was the last in a string of colleges.
He studied religion and native american culture in every school and he was in a seminar in native american culture with ingrid griesen.
That's how they know so much about me.
I've been a guest lecturer in that seminar for the past 4 years.
If cally's our cult leader, we need more information on him.
Have garcia pull every shred of cally's life t of the system.
She's already pulling it.
Do we know he's still in the area? He was arrested for trespassing on a bunch of motel properties.
Breaking into unoccupied rooms.
But his last known aress turned up cold.
Most cults don't have any legitimate means of paying rent.
They tend to seek out abandoned, previously standing structures.
Like manson's spahn ranch.
There's an abandoned motel off route 29.
Right in the middle of the deadlands.
Let's go.
I'll stay with reid, and we'll pull as much as we can on cally.
Fbi, don't move.
Put your hands out to the side and turn around very slowly.
Jackson cally.
Grandfather.
There's no one else here, hotch.
Where are the others? Hunting.
jackson gordon cally.
Spent most of his childhood moving from foster home to foster home.
Hang on a second.
I'm gonna put you on speaker.
Ahead, reid.
Simply another sad but unremarkable statistic.
Aside from the fact that he had an iq of 189.
Any criminal record? At 18 he spent 22 months in prison for auto theft.
I just spoke to the warden at the prison, said when he was there, he found religion and began preaching to his fellow inmates.
And that he once cvinced a mass murderer he was doing time with to beat to death an inmate that was threatening cally.
Ever since he was a child, this guy just survived on cunning force of personality.
Spent 22 months in the clink, was released and then bounced from university to university.
Studying, you guessed it, native american cultures.
Ok, thanks.
What's his connection to the apache? Aside from taking your class, nothing that they coulfind.
With sociopaths like cally, there is no connection.
If it hadn't been apache, he would've found some other culture to attract and manipulate his followers.
Like manson, cally has been forced to become an expert profiler of sorts.
He reads the people around him.
Finds a way in.
And then he brainwashes them to serve his needs.
And the only way to figure out his game is to play it.
I'm gonna give him exactly what he wants.
What's that? An audience.
Mr.
Cally, i'm special agent aaron hotchner with the fbi.
You know, i spent my whole life talking to cops and doctors.
Something different about you.
You're not just a cop, are you? You're very perceptive.
So, what are you? I'm a profiler.
So am i.
Your colleagues respect you a great deal.
Looking to you to find all the answers.
Leadership is a grave responsibility.
They don't call me grandfather.
Well, in my tribe, grandfather is simply another wo for teacher.
Did you teach your tribe to murder? No, i don't teach murder.
I teach love.
Love of land.
Love of ancestors.
Love of the tribe.
These trespassers poison the land.
The apache will soon remember who they are and they will hunt these trespassers off their land.
Until no one but the apache remain.
You think you speak for the apache.
But you're notng but a coward.
And a killer.
I haven't killed anyone.
Do you think that your little tribe is going to wage a war with all the white peoplen this state? Pretty soon, we won't have to.
Why is that? What's going to happen when the angry white men come to the doors of your children blaming you for the killing of their people? Wh are you going to do, call the cops? No.
You're going to string them up.
You're going to put their heads on poles and rape their women.
Just like the savage animal you really are.
Too bad you couldn't be the leader that your father was.
Enough! Enough! Let me in with him alone.
I'll get him talking.
You've done more than we could' hoped for.
You guys take cally down to the sheriff's office.
You tell that man he's welcome on my reservation anytime.
I'll give you a ride back.
Blackwolf got cally to reveal his true nature.
He's a racist.
None of this was for the sake of the apache.
Never was.
It was always about cally.
It was about power and manipulation.
Charles manson claimed that he ordered his followers to kill whites in order to initiate a race war.
Something he referred to as helter skelter.
And he believed in the aftermath of helter skelter, the blacks, who he deemeinferior, would need a white man to lead them.
There was a large cache of guns missing from minton's house.
Why? Why would cally suddenly need guns? His whole m.
o.
Is to fight a war using the native american methods.
Maybe he isn't trying to fight a war.
Maybe he's trying to start one.
The first attack was designed to look like indians.
In an attempt to manipulate the adu to retaliate against the reservation.
But they didn't.
How could they? We had them put under surveillance.
So cally tried to provoke them further by killing the head of the adu.
Minton and his family.
Right, but that didn't work either so now he wants to attack the other side.
He's trying to provoke the indians by staging an adu attack against them.
Call blackwolf.
We need to get to the reservation.
You think the school? They're going to go for our most vulnerable target.
In 1861, cochise led his followers to fight put that away.
What? You don't need it.
Use your baton.
The are many paths to the same place.
Trust me.
Just so you know, you sound like a fortune cookie.
Split up.
Find them.
Hey.
Psst.
Big mistake.
Stay down.
I don't want to hurt you.
Down! Don't move! Don't shoot! I give up! You ok? Just had to shoot somebody, didn't you? [Cars approach.]
The children? They're fine.
We got them out before they got here.
We took down these four.
Without firing a shot? Captain america here shot number 5.
You're welcome.
Number 6 is cut up pretty bad.
I don't think he's gonna make it.
At least i didn't shoot him.
I think i'd rather be shot.
There's an old apache saying.
You can take many paths to get to the same pla.
Be with yoin a second.
Thanks.
What's this? Paul morris.
He's in the new york field offic if you ever need anything, give him a call.
He'll take care of you.
This your way of saying i can't take care of myself? No.
It's my way of saying i'm a jackass.
Yeah, well, it must be hereditary.
Sean it's really important that you do this your way.
You know, what you feel is every bit as important as what you think.
Dad knew that.
I forgot.
You reminded me, and thanks.
This is, uh, a pretty messed up going away psent, you know that? Brother worries.
You need to get out of the office more.
Tell me about it.
Soi'm starved.
How's the food? It's pretty good.
Let me fix you something special.
I'm in your hands.
Want a beer? Sure, man.
Thanks.