We're back in Miami.
Welcome,friends.
Jim nance along with phil simms.
Super bowl xli is in the books, and,phil,as you look back on it now,what was the turning point? Well,like most games,jim,especially super bowls,it's about turnovers.
That's what happened here today.
But when I talk about turnovers, I have a different take on it.
I look at it as takeaways.
The winning team is always the most physical.
They hit the opposing quarterback,they make him throw interceptions, they hit the running back extra hard- well,football is over until next year.
Oh,which means I get sundays with my husband back.
I already miss it.
Hey! Oh,no,you didn't! Oh! No,no,no.
I didn't mean it that way.
Well,then-then how did you mean it? Just that I'll miss the,uh- I don't know.
No,no,don't do it.
Just beg for her forgiveness and move on! Do you count what he drinks? Yeah,sometimes.
Do you count my- my beers? What? I don't want to do this.
The others are leaving now.
Go around back.
Well,get home safe,you guys.
Oh,don't worry,I'm driving.
Didn't men use to the bosses? Hey,I'm already in trouble.
Yeah.
Smart boy.
Bye,you guys.
Good night.
Ah.
Can we let this wait till morning? No,let's just do a little.
Come on.
All right.
I'm gonna take the garbage out.
Ok.
Honey,did you leave the back door open? What? Nothing,never mind.
Hey,lena can finish the rest.
Lena can barely finish what she has to do on a normal monday.
Come on,I want to go to bed.
Oh,dennis! Hey,i know how I can make up that horrible comment to you.
You are kidding me,right? We can start on that special sunday together.
No,well,I could get you a football helmet that you could make out with.
Oh,that's ridiculous.
Come with me.
I love it when you drink.
A glass of champagne? your emergency? I'm at 1527 chestnut drive.
I know where you're calling fro calling from.
What's the emergency? He thinks they're too greedy.
They have too much.
Too much what? Stuff,you know,possessions.
Things they don't need.
Hurry! You're calling because these people have too much stuff? No,I'm calling because raphael- That's enough.
I know why he's calling,because raphael is going to kill the sinners that live here.
I'm sorry,did you say someone is killing somebody? sir? hello? face forward and be careful! Want to look back and check your wallet.
It's all right,I'll be a broke,happy man.
Cheers! How are they treating you at the B.
A.
U.
,Emily? She means,am I being nice to you? Actually,everyone has been incredibly nice.
Look at him move.
it's like a cat.
More like a dog! He did not ask them to dance.
They asked him.
Ok.
Ok,he's a cat.
An alley cat.
Come on,haley,let's go show them how it's done.
Oh! Game if you are! Push it to the limit that is so sweet.
I'm going to the loo.
Do not let anyone steal my seat.
I'll guard it with my life.
oh! Another perfect toss! How did you get so good at this? Where I grew up,darts was like a national sport.
Seriously? Yeah,we were too small for a bowling alley.
Ah.
Oh! Sorry,boys,you're gonna have to find someone else to humiliate you.
Oh,ok.
Ask me any, any question.
return to tomorrow.
Return to tomorrow,season an alien entity,sargon,takes over kirk's body while 2 others kick over spock and dr.
Mulhall.
Alien race or terran? Trick question.
A race is never identified.
Sargon is a disembodied mind.
What did dr.
Mccoy quote? "I will not peddle flesh.
I'm a physician.
" Drink! I'm sorry.
Will you say that again? Ok.
Um,have the police fax over everything they have so far.
I'll take care of the notifications,most everyone's here with me.
Thank you.
Last,but not least,a special treat for your annual super bowl visit.
Something new? As soon as it came in,I knew you'd want to see it.
An original hand-colored audubon etching entitled turdus polyglottus.
Or the mockingbird.
It's gorgeous.
See how they fight the rattlesnake for their nest? They have no concern for their own safety.
I can see why you'd be drawn to it.
You know,they can emulate the cries of over 30 different species, from hummingbirds to eagles,other animals, even machinery.
They are incredible.
J.
J.
I'll meet you at the office.
Rattlesnake in someone's nest? I'm sorry we couldn't spend more time together.
Thanks a lot.
What did we do? It was redemption.
It wasn't god's breath What did we do? You know,it never fails.
Just as I'm getting my groove thing going,bam.
We're back at the B.
A.
U.
You know,statistically a case doesn't come in with any more frequency if you're at a party or a gathering and if you aren'T.
It's a trick of the mind.
We merely remember the ones that came in that way more.
So is it really that hard for you to get your groove "thang" going again? Only when he's sleeping.
Where were you tonight? I told you,I went to the smithsonian.
You missed a good time.
I had a good time.
Well,that's definitely over.
Georgia.
The kyles dennis and lacy were murdered an hour ago in their suburban atlanta home.
An hour ago? Police were on scene unusually fast.
Why? One of the unsubs called them and told them that the other was about to mder the victims.
You're kidding.
From inside the house.
According to the dispatcher, the first male sounded terrified and begged them to get there before the other, who they both identified as raphael, was about to kill the sinners that lived there.
Sinners? The 9-1-1 center is going to send garcia a copy of the tape.
How fast was the police response time? During which time raphael managed to do this.
In 41/2 minutes? Mr.
Kyle is a dot com millionaire.
His company is one of the largest employers in the community.
There's gonna be media coverage.
Also,when they arrived, the police found this displayed prominently on the bed.
Revelations chapter 6,erse 8.
They're killing sinners.
These guys are on a mission.
And mission-based killers will not stop killing.
And I looked in behold a pale horse, and his name that sat upon m was death.
And hell followed with him.
This isn't right.
Ye shall walk after the lord,your god, and fear him and keep his commandments and obey his voice, and you shall serve him, and cleave unto him.
You don't serve god that way.
You don't question me,boy! Clean yourself up and quit whining.
You done the lord's work today.
Hey! No,PLEASE! Now you stay right there.
Book tells us that we ain't to serve the lord until we are sealed,boy.
Sealed with god's mark.
Sealed in our forehead.
Condemned murderer perry smith said of his victims,the clutter family, I didn't have anything against them,and they never did anything wrong to me, the way other people have all my life.
Maybe they're just the ones who have to pay for it.
This is a bad one,isn't it? Unsubs with a cause are never good.
Pets,I just got the 9-1-1 call from the georgia state police.
your emergency? I'm at 1527 chestnut drive.
I know where you're calling fro calling from.
What's the emergency? He thinks they're too greedy.
They have too much.
Too much what? Stuff,you know,possessions.
Things they don't need.
Hurry! You're calling because these people have too much stuff? No,I'm calling because raphael- That's enough.
I know why he's calling,because raphael is going to kill the sinners that live here.
I'm sorry,did you say someone is killing somebody? Well,unsub one definitely sounds frightened.
Maybe he's doing this against his will.
I doubt it.
He whispered.
He could have called out to save them instead of calling 9-1-1.
Not if he had a gun to his head.
If he had a gun to his head,why would he have dialed 9-1-1? The second unsub said raphael was going to kill someone.
Is there a third? Referring to oneself in the third person is not uncommon for an unsub.
Ted bundy gave thoroughly detailed accounts of his murders, but he never actually admitted to doing it.
He would just say,"the killer.
Ok,so I'm gonna go ahead and the name raphael through the georgia criminal databases as well as our own.
Thanks,garcia.
Ever so welcome,my liege.
We have a killing team on a mission in rural georgia.
We know what that means.
They're not gonna stop until the mission's complete.
We need to hit the ground running.
J.
J.
,We need an inside picture of the victims.
Victimology can be critically important in a mission-based spree.
Already on it.
Prentiss,go where the bodies are.
Examine the wounds.
They managed to kill 2 victims in 41/2 minutes.
- You got it.
- We need to know how.
I'm gonna set up at the atlanta field office and go over case files from the state.
It would be highly unusual for a first kill to be this efficient.
Reid,you and morgan,come with me to the crime scene.
We land in less than an hour.
Everybody try to get some rest.
You all right? What? You seem unhappy.
I am unhappy.
Tired of people using religion to justify the terrible things they do.
You're saying these killers are on a mission? These unsubs believe they're either on a mission from god or that the bible was somehow guiding them.
Unsubs? That stands for unknown subjects.
The killers,working as a team.
It sounded to me like only one of them was into the mission.
It's usually more complicated than even that.
In the case of dick hickock and perry smith, perry was the subservient personality.
Basically against even entering the clutter home, and yet he was the one who almost single-handedly slaughtered the entire family.
Huh.
How many times was mr.
Kyle stabbed? Stabbed isn't exactly the word.
They're all long,deep gashes.
Each victim has virtually the same wounds- both throats cut,a vertical gash up one arm from wrist to elbow, and a vertical gash down one leg from crotch to upper thigh.
Major arteries.
It's damned efficient.
How much knowledge of anatomy would someone need to do this? Anyone with a basic understanding of the body knows where these arteries are.
And do you have any idea which one of these wounds was delivered first? Um,there was a- there was active blood flow from each of the wounds, so they're probably all delivered at about the same time.
With any of these wounds, the victim would bleed out quickly, almost like an animal at slaughter.
No.
Exactly like an animal at slaughter.
A deer or a lamb or a cow,something like that.
You-you cut the throat first,then- then sometimes open up other major arteries to assist in draining the carcass.
So,maybe a hunter? Or a farmer.
Pretty much anyone in rur georgia.
Oh.
So,I just talked to the gentries.
They were the last couple to leave the super bowl party.
According to them,the kyles didn't have any enemies.
They were good to their employees, more generous then they needed to be.
They were just generally good people.
So why them? Well,if the trigger's greed, they do have a nice house.
Yeah,but you can't tell that from the street.
These people were chosen,and we need to know why and how.
I pulled everything we have unsolved in the last 2 years.
Nothing even close to the M.
O.
No murders involving a knife? We have a lot of open cases involving knives, but they're in common type crimes,bar fights,robberies.
Well,this isn't their first contact.
One of them has experience.
Is it ok if I go through some of your case files? Fresh eyes.
There's nothing there.
Help me out,ok? These guys,they're not gonna let me do anything else, and I flew all the way here,so I'll show you the file room.
This is an unincorporated area.
We're stretched pretty thin,manpower-wise.
That's why we couldn't get here any faster after the guy called.
pretty good response time.
Yeah,that's on par with new york city's response time.
And they've got a hell of a lot more cops per capita.
This unsub was good.
You didn't really have a chance.
Ok,I know my partner called 9-1-1.
The police are on the way,so I don't have a lot of time.
Now,assuming unsub one didn't actively participate, I gotta believe I entered the bedroom fr here.
I see mr.
Kyle on the other side of the bed.
So I approach him.
And I cut him first.
Well,how do you know that? A blitz attacker neutralizes the greatest threat first.
In this case,it would be the man.
Plus a Woman screamed.
You can't scream with your throat cut.
So mrs.
Kyle sees her husband murdered.
She runs back into the bathroom.
Excuse me,man.
She tries to close the door behind her.
I force my way in.
And I kill mrs.
Kyle back here in the bathroom.
We checked that smudge for prints.
Nothing.
Looks like he wore some gloves.
Not with any pattern.
Like latex maybe.
That doesn't make any sense at all.
It doesn't? Unsubs suffering from a psychopathy, a delusion,like a message from god, or what we could classify as being disorganized.
They don't generally clean up after themselves.
You know,maybe unsub one,the frightened one,made sure they didn'T.
Yeah,talk to me,baby girl.
Are you at the crime scene? Yep.
Is there like a- a burgundy settee against one wall? Um,if a settee is a little couch.
Oh,my lord.
What? What's wrong? I just got a viral video emailed to me by a friend.
A viral what? It's a video that someone posted online that someone thinks is novel in some way, and so they send it to everyone on their email lists, and so on and so on.
This one seems to be pretty popular judging by the string of names on the forward.
Garcia,is there some point to all of this? Yeah,I'm pretty sure it's a video of your crime scene.
More specifically of your crime,most specifically of mr.
Kyle being murdered.
Garcia,there's a video of this murder posted on the internet? Yeah.
Shot from directly across the room from the little couch.
It says, that the world is a cesspool of greed.
Lust.
Disease.
That sounds like unsub number one.
He says redemption must be sought.
We must all repent.
And he referred to being raphael? - It's not god.
- Or god.
It's someone sitting right there next to him telling this guy what to say.
- that's a new voice.
- As lord god spoke in leviticus - a third unsub? - And if you will not yet for all this I will punish ye 7 times more for your sins.
Could just be recorded from a religious program or sermon.
Punish ye 7 times.
These images were shot from the exact spot on the dresser where that computer sat.
So,if this video came from that computer's camera,then what? Did the unsubs bring it with them? As far as we can tell,this computer belonged to the kyles.
Garcia can do a better analysis, but it has their banking statements,vacation photos.
One comes into the room and immediately goes after mr.
Kyle.
What,did the other unsub turn the camera on? We might be asking the wrong questions.
This video,this message,it's important.
Clearly they want the world to see this.
They need it.
But they didn't bring a camera with them.
Agent franks? Does this building hav wireless internet? Yeah.
Why? That camera's on right now.
Did you see that,boy? What's going on? I told you,the armies of satan were gonna rise against us.
The computer's connected itself to the internet.
It's streaming a video feed somewhere.
Can we trace this stream to the destination? Keep it open,garcia might be able- It turned off.
So they're controlling it remotely? Is that even possible? Yeah,you can totally access someone's computer remotely.
It's actually done a lot today.
When a mortal calls for tech support,instead of like giving you instructions, the tech can work on your computer from wherever she is.
And they maintain the access even after the work is done? They're not supposed to, but I suppose you could install a trojan horse during a service.
Something left in the computer to be turned on later.
Same way that websites get pop-up adds onto your computer.
Garcia,can you check the kyles' phone records and see if they called for tech support in the last 6 months? Right-O.
Oh,and if you get me the kyles' laptop,I can search the drive for anything implanted there.
Fast as we can.
By the way,this video, it's gone crazy viral.
What does that mean? That means it's the most downloaded video on the entire internet,worldwide.
And judging by the responses embedded in the files, people seem to think it's pretty cool.
Call us if you find anything on the kyles' computer.
Yeah.
Murder as entertainment.
They probably don't even realize it's real.
People see so many images online every day, they might assume it's marketing for a horror film or something.
The unsubs are right about one thing the world is pretty screwed up.
What?No!No!This is warning,not a show.
What is wrong with you people- Tech support.
Uh,I just got this computer yesterday and I can't seem to get the damn sound to work.
All right,I think I can deal with that,sir.
What kind of computer do you have? I don't know,big? I didn't mean the size,sir.
I meant,do you have a P.
C.
? Um,my wife gave it to me for my birthday.
Does your computer have a camera installed in it? I think so.
But it's my sound that's messed up.
All right,I can help you with that,sir.
I'm gonna need you to allow me remote access to your computer.
Ok,sure.
Whatever that means.
As long as it gets fixed.
No.
No,no,no,no,don't! - That whore!That jezebel! - what What do you mean,no? No,she made a mistake.
We don't have to- god is about love and forgiveness.
What the hell do you know about god? So what have we got so far? Well,the killings are clinically efficient.
They had the ear marks of a slaughter,as in an animal.
Or a sacrifice.
Haven't been able to find anything in federal or state databases that suggest similar crimes.
As far as I can tell,it's the first in a series.
At least one member of the team may believe he's killing in the name of god, suggesng a psychopathy that should display extreme levels disorganization.
Yet there are forensic countermeasures and somebody in control enough to do complicated computer wk.
One member of the team's organized,the other's extremely disorganized.
But what's strange is that the one that we would consider as being most in control, the one that made the phone call, can't seem to stop the other one from killing.
Usually the frenzied personality takes direction from the cooler head.
All right,so let's look at that.
Unsub one called the police before the killing, but he didn't leave time for him to get there.
Is the phone call just a guy working on a defense in case of capture? I mean,maybe he didn't want to stop the other, but he did whatever he had to do to cover himself.
So what do we have so far? Not enough.
your emergency? Behold,I will cast her into a bed, and then I commit adultery with her to bring tribulation.
Excuse me? Raphael must teach more sinners the way of the lord.
so,franks is right,none of the open knife cases fit.
Tell me there's a but.
Well,I looked at it a different way.
I looked for unsolved home invasions.
in directly outside of the kyles' house.
A prowler? The witness was walking his dog in a nearby park.
Going back to his car, he saw a man in dark clothing go over the back wall and start sneaking up to the house.
By the time the state police got there,prowler was gone.
Only one man? Apparently.
Was the witness able to describe him? If he did,it's not in this case file.
Is there a name and address for the witness? Tobias hankle.
Lives about an hour from here.
It's a long shot,but he might be able to give us a description.
Why don't you and reid go out there, see if you can find mr.
Hankle and see if he remembers something.
On it.
- Agent hotchner.
- Yeah? State just responded to another murder.
See if you can get the coroner out here right away.
Detective.
Yeah.
Well,he called again.
This time it was different.
Only one of them spoke.
Which one? Pretty sure it was raphael.
I wrote down what he said, and I got a recording being brought out here.
Took almost 11 minutes to respond.
We only had but the one unit close.
Could the unsub know that? Lack of police presence out here has gotten some local media attention recently.
thing that was different.
This particular scene is weird in another way.
The male victim,upstairs throat cut.
Why is that weird? He doesn't live here.
He's a local handyman.
Who lives here? The douglases.
I just talked to mr.
Douglas a little while ago.
He's on his way back from a business meeting down state.
And according to him, he wasn't having any handy work done on the house.
And his wife was supposed to be home.
But she's not? She seems to be missing.
But her car is here.
Keys,wallet,purse.
I got a description out on the field.
- So did you copy down what the caller said? - Yeah.
"Behold, I will cast her into a bed, and then that commit adultery.
" Oh.
So adultery is the sin, but they kill him and not her.
They abduct her.
You think she's still alive? Well,we never assume otherwise unless there's evidence.
"I will cast her into a bed.
" It's from revelation again.
It's about jezebel.
She was an adulterer,whore,false prophetess.
She's the most reviled woman in the bible.
The unsubs knew she was having an affair.
There was a laptop here.
Don't look now,but we're on candid camera.
Uh-huh.
Please! Tie her hands there and there.
Please,don't hurt me! We don't have to do this.
Tie her hands and shut up! Insolence! - I sometimes hate looking at my son! - Please don't hurt me! There's a laptop set up on the dresser upstairs.
With a pretty good view of the room.
Garcia's trying to trace the camera's feed back to its destination.
I gave her space to repent of her fornication,and she repented not.
No,I do! I repent! Please! Look,she repents! It's in the book,luke 15:10,"I say unto you,there is joy " in the presence of the angels of god over one sinner that repenteth.
" I'm sorry,I do! I repent.
Please.
Tape her mouth.
So let's work this out.
What does the new behavior tell us? That there was only one unsub this time? Uh,raphael?Alone? Not if he's the psychotic.
He wouldn't be capable of operating this efficiently.
Someone was here who could control himself.
Make sure no evidence was left behind.
At the first crime,unsub one called the police,right? This time it was raphael.
Why? It's like the phone call is necessary.
It's part of the signature.
"Power was given unto them "over the fourth part of the earth.
"To kill with sword,with hunger,and with death, and with the beasts of the earth.
" See anything new? - No.
- Revelations.
Lot of bad stuff happens in that book.
Phael called alone this time? Sounded like it.
This thing doesn't act like anything we've ever seen.
Someone's clearly a dominant personality and a clearly subservient one.
They don't swing back and forth like this.
Just don't take on each other's roles.
Meaning? You know they can emulate the cries of over 30 different species? From hummingbirds to eagles,other animals,even machinery.
Ever heard of the archangel raphael? God preached mercy for sinners.
Don't you try to tell me about the lord,boy.
Now you just get yourself in front of that camera, and make our message to the world.
"Jezebel,which calleth herself a prophetess,"to teach and to seduce my servants to commit fornication.
" Have we ever seen this in case history? A mixture of extreme psychosis in a controlled individual?No.
One of the most common indicators of extreme psychosis is solitude.
They don't exactly play well with others.
Was garcia able to find anything on a raphael in the records? Not yet.
So why is he naming himself? Twice? Certainly not worried about us getting that name.
In fact,he wants us to know it.
An alias? Or raphael doesn't actually exist.
So we're not looking for a team? Raphael's the name of one of the archangels.
Meaning? We may have one unsub, suffering from a delusion that he's actually an archangel.
Maybe that first phone call was not 2 people,but one.
What about the third voice? That I don't know about yet.
If mrs.
Douglas is jezebel, there is an especially unpleasant death in her future.
"This is the word of the lord, "that he spake by his servant, "elijah,the tishbite,saying, in the portion of jezreel shall dogs eat the flesh of jezebel.
" Garcia's running voice analysis on the first 9-1-1 call to see if there are actually 2 voices.
She's also going to peel the third voice off the videotape and see if that gets anything.
We should have a copy of that latest call brought over here within the hour.
Thanks.
Hotchner.
Your tip from chronicles is on the phone.
Garcia.
Jeez,don't you people answer your cell phones anymore? We were driving back to atlanta through the countryside.
Spotty cell signal.
If you think that first video went viral fast, the second one's going through the stratosphere.
Second video? Yeah,there's a new video from our psycho.
I'm downloading it myself right now.
Some of these upload sites get more than a million hits a day.
- Get it on the monitor here as soon as you can.
- Right.
There isn't time,boy.
No,no,daddy,I don't want- serving the lord ain't about what you want to do.
Serving the lord is a duty.
"That he spake by his servant, "elijah the tishbite,saying, in the portion of jezreel shall dogs eat the flesh of jezebel.
Oh,my god.
Oh,my god.
Oh,my god.
Oh,my god,no! Jezebel's death.
My god.
You can turn it off.
Oh,wait.
You hadn't seen enough? Those dogs.
Those 3 dogs attacked someone a couple of months ago.
I would have had them impounded, but the victim knew the owner.
A neighbor.
He didn't want to press charges.
You sure? As god is my witness.
I knew those dogs looked sick.
I called animal control, I don't know if they ever followed up on it.
Here it is.
You have the owner's name? - Hankle.
- Hankle? Tobias hankle.
Hi,mr.
Hankle? Um yeah? Mr.
Hankle? F.B.I.
,I'm agent jareau,this is agent reid.
F.B.I.
? May we come in? Um I'm sorry,I don't let anyone in the house.
Actually,I,uh,really have to,um you know,go? You do? For 30 minutes.
Why didn't you say something in the car? Uh,do you mind? I'm sorry.
My father doesn't like it.
Your father?You're,like,30.
At what age can one start disrespecting the wishes of their parents? You witnessed something a few months ago, that might be very helpful to us.
I did? You saw someone go over a wall into a yard,you called the police? Me? You didn't? Sorry.
Is there another tobias hankle here? Just me and my father.
Charles.
There's a report on file that lists you as calling 9-1-1.
You were walking a dog.
No,that's wrong,I don't have a dog.
Oh.
All right,well,sorry to bother you,sir.
- Are you sure I can't just quickly use the - sorry.
Have a good night.
That's weird.
Why bother calling the police in the first place if later, you're just going to pretend you didn't? To gauge the response time.
What? If you were going to kill somebody, but you wanted to call the police first, what would you need to know? How long it takes them to get there.
Reid.
J.J.
!Get back here! He's the unsub! He's in the barn!Come on.
He's in here.
You sure? You ever seen me pull this thing out when I wasn't? Call hodges.
We're in the middle of nowhere,reed.
We have no cell service.
Right.
Of course we have no service.
What do we do? I don't know.
He's definitely in here.
You cover the front,I'm gonna go around back.
Hotch knows we came here.
He'll come looking for us.
We'll just wait him out.
No,reid,are you sure we should split up? J.J.
! J.J.
,He's out back! What? Reid? Reid.
Why are you running from them devils,boy? They're F.
B.
I.
They're devils! You're doing the lord's work.
You got nothing to be afraid of! Reid! I don't wann do this anymore! Don't you disrespect me,boy.
I'm sorry.
You don't got no choices when the lord summons you to do his work.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
J.J.
! Wait,wait,wait.
I couldn't stop him by myself.
Ok,ok.
I tried to warn everyone.
Just relax,mr.
Hankle,all right? Shoot him! I don't want to! I said, shoot him,you weakling.
He's a satan.
He didn't do anything.
I won't tell you another time,boy.
Shoot him!