Next friday, our children will be asked a question.
How they answer that will define us all.
The question is : when victory and defeat, life and death, hang in the balance, what are you capable of ? State championship ! Number one ! Same speech he gives every year.
That's because it works every year.
What are you doing ? You hate football.
My brother's on the team.
You hate your brother.
Besides, did I ask you not to go to the pep rally ? Did I ask you to dump the quarterback ? - Very nice.
- Come on, guys.
We're all tired, we're all hungry and we all know the second you get some of this pizza, you'll remember how much you love each other.
You ok ? Yeah.
It's just a little cough, it's not going to kill me.
Thanks for hanging with me.
Always.
Besides, thank your daddy for leaving us the house all weekend.
I need some air.
Give me this.
- Polly.
- Yeah ? Go on.
I'll be right in.
- Okay, I'm going to go shower.
- Okay.
Hey, garbage girl, better not forget to wash your hands.
Do what I say, Polly, or Brooke and Kelly die.
Now, get dressed.
Are you ok ? What does this guy want ? I don't know.
Did you tell him our names ? - What ? - He called us by name.
Did you tell him ? No.
She's right.
He knew our names.
- What does that mean ? - That he knows us, that he's someone we know ? Well, if he knows us, why hasn't he talked to us ? 'Cause he's some kind of freak ! If he comes back, we have to fight him together.
Right.
This time, we fight, no matter what.
Okay ? He can't take all We all attack him at once.
Are you sure you're okay ? God ! What does this guy want ? To choose.
To choose what ? Two of you will leave this room alive one of you will die.
You choose.
Mrs.
Homefeldt ? Hi.
I'm agent Jareau.
Thank you for seeing me.
- My aunt said it was an emergency.
- Yeah.
She said to give this to you.
You played soccer.
I don't understand.
My daughter Polly, played soccer too, for North Mammon.
The varsity team.
She got a scholarship to Penn State.
Forgive me, ma'am.
My aunt didn't really explain to me the nature of this emergency.
No one is looking for them.
Here.
My daughter and her two friends, they've been missing for 5 days, and I know someone took them, but no one will believe me.
- Missing ? - Yeah.
This this here this this is you, right ? I mean, you found this girl, right ? No, no, not just me.
The team here did.
It's been 5 days now.
Can you ask them to help me ? Because no one is looking for my Polly.
Well, as much as we might want to take this case, we have to be invited by local authorities.
I'm sure that this friend of your aunt's is very concerned, but it just doesn't work that way.
I called the police chief.
He faxed over an official request for our assistance.
This is Brooke Chambers.
Her father, Peter, a widower, left her home alone for the weekend.
Polly Homefeldt and Kelly Seymour were sleeping over saturday night.
At 9:35 P.
M.
During the town's pep rally for the high school football team, both Kelly and Polly called home.
It's me.
I know this is last minute, but please don't be angry.
Brooke, Kelly and I are going to take off on a road trip for a few days, sort of our last adventure before graduation.
We'll be back friday night.
Love you.
Bye.
Kelly Seymour left this message on her parents'machine It's me.
I know this is last minute, but please don't be angry.
Brooke, Polly, and I are going to take off on a road trip for a few days, sort of our last adventure before graduation.
We'll be back friday night.
Love you, bye.
- Exactly the same.
- Word for word.
Both calls made were made from Brooke's cell, which has since been turned off.
And there's been no activity on their cell phones or atm cards since saturday.
It does sound like they were reading from a script.
And obviously, since the phone's turned off, I can't use it to locate the girls, but I have an open trap on the number in case it gets turned back on.
Okay, guys, guys, not for nothing.
I remember my senior year in high school.
Isn't it possible these girls just took off on a road trip ? No.
Absolutely not.
Polly accepted an athletic scholarship to Penn state.
I was a high school athlete, just like these girls.
I was these girls.
They don't smoke, they don't do drugs, they don't drink during the season, and they do not jeopardize a full-ride scholarship by cutting school and missing practice.
Okay.
I hear you, JJ.
It has been 5 days.
There's a chance these girls There's a chance we may not find them.
I don't think so.
- Why not ? - The phone messages.
If they were reading from a script, they said, "I'll see you next friday", not two days, not two weeks, friday.
Why be that specific ? My guess is we have until friday to find them.
Two days.
So, are we taking this case ? Wheels up in 30 minutes.
Legendary basketball coach John Wooden said, "it's not so important who starts the game, but who finishes it.
" Hi, I'm sergeant Sykes, Tom, if you want.
Derek Morgan.
- Agent Gideon, Dr.
Reid.
- Jason Gideon.
How are you ? Hope we haven't brought you folks out here for nothing.
You don't believe the girls are missing ? It's not really the kind of thing that happens around here, you know ? You'd be surprised to know how many times we hear that.
Still, I've been through the house myself and nothing looks out of place at all.
- You talk to chambers, the father ? - Haven't located him yet.
- Is that unusual ? - Chambers is a lawyer.
He's always out of town on business.
November 3rd.
That's tomorrow.
State championship football game.
North Mammon is finally back in it.
Show us inside.
Chief Yates, Jennifer Jareau, we spoke on the phone.
- Hi.
- This is agent hotchner.
Hi, Jeff Yates.
Hi, Judy.
Hey, why don't you go on inside and make yourself comfortable.
- We'll be in in a minute.
- Okay.
Chief Yates, there's not much of a case file yet.
Listen, I can't get anyone to agree the girls are actually missing.
Mrs.
Homefeldt certainly believes it.
Yeah, well, I wouldn't put too much stock in what Judy Homefeldt thinks.
Why is that ? She's got a history of mental problems.
- What kind of history ? - Depression.
Just heard she's even on medication.
Didn't she raise Polly on her own after her husband abandoned her, - what, 12 years ago ? - That's right.
Yeah.
If you were in her place, don't you think you'd be a little depressed ? Point taken.
Chief, if you're not sure the girls are missing, why would you request our help ? Listen, something happened.
I'm just not sure what and if it's bad, I'll take all the help I can get.
Plus, your agent Jareau can be pretty convincing.
- Are the parents inside ? - Well, kelly's parents are in there.
We still haven't been able to track down Brooke's father, Pete.
He's well, he travels a lot.
Listen, these people are my friends, okay ? Let me tell you they're my neighbors, good people.
I don't want anybody assuming that they're involved.
We just got here, we're not assuming anything.
Go ahead.
You were right, sergeant.
No forced entry, no sign of struggle.
If someone did attack these girls, they chose to comply pretty fast.
- If.
- There were only two ways to immediately get compliance without the use of force, that's either the threat of force or previously established trust.
Whoever it was, it took a lot of planning.
Detailed information about the girls.
When Brooke's father was gone, - when the other parents were out.
- How do you mean ? He knew they'd have to leave messages.
With that script, they couldn't have talked to the parents directly.
Close family friend or a stalker.
The folks here look after each other.
There's no way an outsider stalked these girls without being noticed.
We have to assume the people who abducted these girls were members of the community.
Would have needed a spot to watch her from.
Should we expect a ransom demand ? Kidnappers who want money contact the families to prove they have possession of the victim.
They don't call to conceal it.
Kidnappers.
Are we sure they just haven't run off ? It's pretty unusual the girls left identical messages.
They feel scripted.
- Why would Kelly run off ? - Here's the thing.
This is a football town, Kelly plays girl's soccer.
Our son is on the football team.
This week, the football is all anyone cares about.
That didn't always sit right with Kelly.
Should it, Gill ? Should her being told that she's not as important sit right with her ? - I didn't say she wasn't as important.
- You never said it.
No, it's going to be all right.
She'll be back after the game, you'll see.
Come on, I got some tissue in the office.
You can see all the windows from here.
Someone's spent a lot of time here.
- Damn.
- Has it rained since saturday night ? No.
He who seeks the queen of all knowledge, speak and be recognized.
Garcia, we're sending you some cigarettes.
Yeah, why not a flesh-eating virus ? It'll be faster and far less painful.
We need some butts rushed to the lab for DNA analysis.
Oh, Reid, I love it when you say butts.
Send away, sugar.
Bang bang for now.
Do you really think someone from our town's involved in this ? You said it yourself, an outsider would have been noticed.
Sergeant Sykes.
What ? Looks like chief Yates won himself a title back in the day.
- They do like their football.
- Trust me, it's like a religion.
Do you think it strange that with three girls missing, nobody's talking about canceling tomorrow night's game ? Come on, Hotch, it's football.
They know they can play without girls.
Just found Brooke's car abandoned.
I'm freezing.
We're all cold, we're all hungry.
She has a fever.
Complaining about it isn't going to make it any better.
Do you have to be so mean ? Mean ? Some jerk locks us in a box, and I'm mean ? You don't see Brooke and me jumping on you about it.
I don't see you or Brooke doing a damn thing ! Guys, this is what he wants.
How long have we been down here ? We don't even know where here is.
He doesn't want us to know.
He wants to break us down.
It's called sensory depravation.
It's not going to work ! You hear me, you son of a bitch ?! It's not going to work ! Yes, it will.
If he doesn't give us water and food it will work.
We could die down here.
It's covered in dust.
It must've been here for quite a while.
So much for the spontaneous road trip.
This isn't a very traveled area.
- Not really.
- So, the car's left in town where it would eventually be found.
- Eventually.
- Gideon, it's from the football team.
It says K.
E.
on the brim.
- Could be Kip Engler.
- Who ? Ah, he's the quarterback.
He and brooke were an item.
What, you think he had something to do with this ? Was he at the pep rally saturday night ? - Yeah, he was the star of it.
- Then no.
But I think we know the kind of person we're looking for.
Brooke, Kelly and Polly have been missing for 5 days.
Usually in cases like this we wouldn't expect to find them alive.
However, in this case, we don't believe that to be true.
The person responsible spent considerable time and energy planning the abduction.
He did not do all this work to simply kill the girls once he had them.
Otherwise, he would've done it at the Chamber's house.
He certainly seemed to know he had the time.
And he had Kelly and Polly reference friday in the messages they left for their parents.
We think the unsub has something planned for the night of your championship game.
We are certain the unsub is someone from this community.
How do you know that ? Because, Mr.
Chambers, he didn't have your daughter leave you a phone message or a note, did he ? Not that I know of.
'Cause he knew you'd be out of town for a while.
Just like he knew the dump site for the car would eventually be found.
Everything points to him giving himself time.
Time for what ? - I don't know yet, sir.
- Well, what's been done about it ? Sir, I'm with the FBI.
We're going to need some information.
Wait a minute.
If someone from this town's taken my Brooke, - I wanna know what's being done about it.
- Yes, I know, sir.
If you'd just come with me.
I will explain everything.
All right ? Thank you.
Predatory abductors like this unsub are intelligent, patient and cautious.
They like to watch everything : the victims, the families, the police.
He's surely watching us now and may even attempt to inject himself into our investigation.
We also know that predatory abductors prepare a nest, prior to the abduction.
A remote cabin, an underground bunker, a secret secure place that only he has access to.
Designed to confine and conceal his prey once his hunting is done.
Should we be looking for this nest ? You'd never find it.
For his nest, predatory abductor John Jemelske built a sophisticated dungeon complex under a suburban syracuse home, where he documented every detail of the torture he carried out upon the victims he kept there for 3 years.
The man who kidnapped these girls has a relationship or a job that permitted him to get close enough to watch them.
We must focus on those people who had access.
A family member, a teacher, a next door neighbor, it sounds cliché but often it is the person you least suspect.
One more thing to remember.
We're looking for someone who was not at the pep rally.
Ask the community, I'm sure somebody videotaped it.
You can go through the tapes, start eliminating townspeople.
I'm sorry, sir.
Mr.
Chambers just took off.
- Where did he go ? - I don't know.
That was Garcia.
She just ran the cigarette butts through CODIS and got a name : Donald Haas ? Don Haas is the girls'soccer coach.
Was coach Haas at the pep rally ? I don't remember seeing him there, no.
Where would coach Haas be right now ? Now, I know we're all upset about Polly and Brooke and Kelly, but it is important that we keep a positive attitude.
Those girls, they'd want you to be strong.
They'd want your prayers.
Where's my daughter, you son of a bitch ? I get the charges dropped, and this is what you do for me ? - Take it easy, take it easy ! - He did it before in Pittsburgh ! He was arrested, and I got him off.
I got you off, - you son of a bitch.
- That's enough ! - Let's go.
- Little help ! Are you okay ? They're all turning on each other.
I'm hungry.
Remember when we played ashland ? You stopped like a hundred shots on goal ? It wasn't a hundred.
You were on fire that day.
You're the great player, Polly.
You're the one going to Penn state.
You're going to come visit me, right ? There's got to be a way to get him to come down here.
He's not coming down.
You know, some of us are trying to come up with solutions, Brooke.
Don't.
She's sick.
Sick, she's sick.
What about me ? I'm sick ! I'm sick of trying to come up with a plan while little miss Perfect over here just whines.
She has a plan.
- What are you talking about ? - She already has a plan.
Why hasn't she told us ? Because I'm not sick enough yet.
What the hell is wrong with Pete, huh ? Going crazy like that.
Like I had something to do with this.
- Mind if I smoke ? - Yes.
You smoke more than 100's, Mr.
Haas ? Yeah.
We found with your DNA on them across the street from the Chamber's house.
This is a mistake.
Somebody has made a mistake.
You smoke those cigarettes and left something for yourself on them, sir.
That's a fact.
Yeah, but I did not leave them there.
- Can you tell me who did ? - How the hell should I know ? All right, thanks.
You can go back to work now.
THE SAGINAW MOTEL.
- Here's the guest registry.
- All right.
I'll get started running these names through the computer.
There's a name in there, John Sherman, you're not going to find it in the state computer.
He stays here once a month, and he pays me $100 cash over the rate so I'll look the other way.
And you don't ask for I.
D.
? Well, I don't have to see, because I know the guy.
Only his name's not sherman.
It's Chambers.
Peter Chambers.
Don Haas kidnapped my daughter.
Now, why are you wasting time talking to me ? He's being questioned in another room.
Tell me why you're so convinced that it was him.
You said it was someone from this community.
The only person I know capable of doing something like this is Don.
What do you mean, capable ? He's a sex offender.
His record is clean.
Yeah, well, six years ago, Don called me from Pittsburgh, he'd been arrested for soliciting an underage prostitute.
- Why did he call you ? - Because I'm a lawyer.
We'd been friends for 30 years.
We played football together in high school.
So, why did you agree to help him ? 'Cause Don swore it was a one-time thing.
The guy was going through a divorce, the girl had a record.
I made sure that a sex offender could still spend all his working hours around young girls.
God, I practically gave him my daughter.
Chambers represented Haas in a minor sex offense case six years ago, had the record expunged.
- What kind of sex offense ? - An underage prostitute.
- Sounds like the right kind of crime ? - Could be.
Well, Haas swears he didn't put the cigarette butts there.
Does it strike anyone else as grossly inconsistent that an unsub this sophisticated and methodical would leave an obvious pile of his DNA at the crime scene ? Don Haas was at the pep rally.
I saw him in two different video tapes.
I guess I must've missed him.
All three of the victims'soccer jersies were found behind the motel Peter Chambers has been staying at for the last week.
Don Haas has an alibi for the night your daughter was taken.
- What ? - Video.
At the exact time the other girls were leaving their scripted messages, - he was at the pep rally.
- Oh, my god.
You said you were in Philadelphia on business last week.
- I'm sorry ? - Were you in philadelphia ? You think I hurt my daughter ? We just found the girls'soccer uniforms behind the Saginaw motel.
What ? Were you in Philadelphia on business last weekend ? No.
Where were you ? I was at the Saginaw motel.
What were you doing there ? I meet a friend there once a month.
Actually, he's more than a friend.
This is a small town.
These are small town people.
They're wonderful in many ways, but there are some things they just don't understand.
I need a name.
Glenn Donahue.
He lives on Rittenhouse square with his wife and his two little boys.
- These men are innocent.
- You're sure ? Unsub planted evidence to implicate them.
Forensic countermeasures.
So, we've got no suspects, no reliable evidence, we've got nothing.
We have the behavior.
The fact of the countermeasures.
He tried to implicate Haas and Chambers.
That would mean Haas and Chambers had significance to him, right ? Who he's implicated may be as important as who he's abducted.
He's been watching them all for a long time.
Seething.
We need to bring the parents and the people he implicated in.
They, along with the girls, are his targets, and it may be the key to finding him before it's too late.
He's ahead of us.
Has been all along.
I got a bad feeling about this one.
Me, too.
It's terrible, but she's sick, - and pretty soon we will be, too.
- I'm not listening.
- She is dying already.
- What ? - You don't know that.
- Look at her, Polly.
She isn't going to make it.
We have to face facts.
- She's dying.
- No she's not.
Yes, she is.
But we don't have to.
So, what we have to do is sacrifice our friend and we're safe.
We didn't do that to her, okay ? How do you know he'll let us go anyway ? Did you ever think of that ? What if he's just some evil, twisted psycho who gets off watching people fight with each other.
Maybe we can get her help if we just get out of here.
He said one of us has to die.
If we don't choose, we are never going to see our families again, ever.
No one will ever know what happened to us, that we'll starve to death and no one will ever know.
You'll never see your mother again, ever.
My mom would be totally alone.
- Totally.
- Totally alone.
There's no other choice, is there ? No, Polly, I'm sorry, but there is no other choice.
She's going to die anyway, right ? That's right, but we don't have to.
All right.
Okay.
Hey, mister.
We made our choice.
God.
No.
What's happening ? Nothing, brooke.
Nothing.
Go back to sleep.
This unsub, or unknown subject, is someone you know.
He's someone from your past, and he's someone who thinks that you have wronged him.
We'd like for you to think about who might fit that description.
Don't you think if we knew who we did this or why we would've told you ? Please, let him talk, Gill.
Oh, I'm going to take advice from somebody on mental medication ? What ? Everyone knows, judy.
Could we just stay focused, please ? The man who took your daughters.
He framed Peter Chambers and Don Haas for a reason.
This is an attack on you.
I have made mistakes in my life, but why take it out on Brooke ? You know, it's one thing for Brooke to pay for your mistakes, but if my daughter has to pay for them, too - Mr.
Seymour, that's not helping.
- That's not fair, Gill.
Fair ? You shut the hell up, you're nothing but a pervert.
You will never get near the children of this town again.
We need to keep this as civil as possible.
Gill, are you even listening ? It wasn't Don.
He had nothing to do with it.
You knew he was a deviant, you didn't tell us.
- You let him coach our girls.
- His arrest was a misunderstanding, okay ? We talked to the hotel manager, Peter.
We know about you.
Maybe this is god's punishment.
Oh, punishment.
Okay.
At least I didn't spend the week my daughter was missing focusing on my son - and the damn football game ! - No, we know what you spent the week doing.
I blame myself for ever letting Kelly be friends with Brooke and Polly to begin with.
Low breeding always shows through.
- Low breeding ? - They're bad seeds.
- They always have been.
- Don't talk about my daughter like that, - all right ? - That's enough ! What is the matter with you people ? This is exactly what he wants.
He is attacking all of you.
He is turning all of you against each other, and you're just letting him do it.
Your daughters are best friends, and you all have known each other most of your lives as friends.
Don't let this man beat you this way.
What do you want us to do ? Listen to these agents, all right ? They came here to help.
Let them do that.
We're going to split you up, go over your histories, and see if there's a name from your past in common.
Probably won't be a casual acquaintance.
He knows your secrets.
Don't just think people you've knowingly wronged.
Maybe something you're not even aware of, - or you may have forgotten - Agent Gideon.
It's Penelope Garcia from Quantico.
She says it's urgent.
Put her on speaker.
Go ahead, Garcia.
Brooke Chamber's phone just switched back on.
- Tell me you got a trace.
- And a location.
Downtown North Mammon, within 100 meters of the intersection of main and first.
That's right outside.
- Morgan.
- Yeah.
Keep the parents back, there are only two of them.
What's going on ? It's okay.
We're with the FBI.
Are you all right ? Polly, are you hurt ? She's bleeding.
It's not her blood.
Brooke.
Where's Kelly Seymour ? Let me get you some more water.
I'll get it.
Polly, do you know who did this to you ? Whatever happened you're a very brave woman.
Not many people can face what you did and make it out the other side.
It wasn't Polly's fault.
She didn't do anything.
Nothing's happened.
I'm just getting her some water.
- Is she talking ? - Did she say where kelly is ? - We're working on it.
- Agent Jareau, when you said we all grew up together, something struck me.
- What's that ? - We all played football together.
Don, Pete, even Chief Yates.
We were all on the last championship football team.
The championship game's tonight.
Do you know where Kelly Seymour is ? Where's the water ? - Hotch, do you mind if I - No, please.
Hi, Polly.
My name is JJ.
I grew up in East Allegheny, just right up the road.
I was captain of the varsity soccer team, my senior year.
It got me a scholarship to Pittsburgh.
It was a pretty good school, but it's not exactly Penn state.
I know that's where you're going because your mom told me.
You know, your mom carried a picture of you all the way up to the FBI academy in Quantico, Virginia so that me and these agents here could help find you.
And, believe me, she was not leaving until we said we'd come.
So, no matter what happened over the past 6 days no matter what This will all be a memory someday but you will always have a mother that loves you that much.
I want to show you a photograph, Polly.
I want you to look at the men in the picture and tell me if you see the man that did this to you.
Okay ? Okay.
It's ok.
We were so hungry so thirsty so cold.
He wants us to do it ? If that's what it takes to get out of this alive - No way, I can't.
- You don't have a choice.
I can't.
I can't.
Listen, it's like like those soccer players who crashed in the Andes.
They were starving, they had no food, nothing to eat except for their friends who had died.
They were good people, but they didn't have a choice.
They did what they had to do.
You killed her.
I didn't have any choice.
They had already decided to but it wasn't Polly's fault.
It was him.
He said we had to choose.
Who was he, brooke ? Who made you choose ? I never saw him.
He made us choose.
Who did ? Good job.
Hotch, it's the guy that found the soccer jerseys.
It's the garbage man.
It's Marcus Younger.
- Polly just ID'd him.
- He was the star of our team.
Blew his knee out in the first quarter of the championship.
Lost his full-ride scholarship to Notre Dame.
- Do you know where he lives ? - Come on.
Clear ! Guys.
There's a storm cellar outside.
Don't move ! I got him.
Marcus Younger ? FBI.
I never touched her.
Put your hands where I can see them.
- I never hurt them.
- Get up, marcus.
I never even came into the room, Jeff.
They did this.
Brooke and Polly.
All I did was show them who they really are, what they were truly capable of.
People pretending to be decent.
When it came down to it, they, uh they reacted just the way I knew they would.
They turned on each other.
Just like when I got hurt.
You all couldn't wait to run over me, to take my position, to take my life and to forget all about me.
Marcus, I'm not going to ask you again.
Get up.
You don't know what it's like, Jeff.
You all have lives, and I just cleaned up after you.
Now, you have to clean up after me.
- You get him out of here.
- let's go.
"The ultimate choice for a man, in as much as he is given to transcend himself is to create or destroy, to love or to hate.
" Erich Fromm.
Can't sleep ? You can't imagine the pressures a small town creates.
To play, to win, everyone pushing, everyone watching.
I hated it.
Why did you play ? Athletic scholarship was the only way I was getting to college.
It was my only way out.
Besides, having a thick skin when it comes to pressure, It's a good thing in this line of work, right ? You did exceptional work the last couple of days.
Thank you.
It's nice to be noticed.
Yeah.
We don't usually, do we ? It's all right.
It's not why I do it.
Have you ever thought about taking the classes, becoming a profiler ? No.
I admire what you guys do, but I like my role.
I like being the person the family can turn to.
Being the voice the poor, over-worked homicide detective can call when he runs out of leads.
- Really ? - Yeah.
I thought everyone wanted to be a profiler.
Sorry.
What's all of that ? New cases.
I got to figure out where going to next.
Hey, wait a minute, we're the profilers.
I thought we made those decisions.
Sure you do.
All right.
Well, I gotta find some place to get some sleep.
- Yeah, good luck with that.
- Thanks.