Previously on Criminal Minds Please, I don't want it.
I don't want it.
It helps.
What is the matter with you? What do you mean, what's the matter with me? I have never seen you act like this.
Really? Oh, in the months that you know me, You've never seen me act this way? Hey, no offense, Emily, but You don't really know what you're talking about, do you? Earlier this morning katrina crashed into the gulf coast, With sustained winds above 125 an hour.
As many houses are being destroyed.
Residents are trying to evacuate.
Are you listening to me, pop? Grab your wallet and get the hell out of there.
The buses are filling up.
This case is eatin' at me, Billy.
Dad.
Forget the damn case.
What the hell am I missing here? Dad, people are drowning in their homes.
The Whole world's gonna be underwater.
I got another letter, Billy.
Screw the letter.
Forget the serial killer.
They're opening the superdome.
I want you to meet me there.
I'll be damned.
Please, I'm begging you, pop.
Pop? Behavioral analysis unit We've got a serial killer in New Orleans Who killed at least 3 men pre-Katrina.
Until now, the New Orleans police department Believed that the serial killer died in the storm.
What's happened to tell them otherwise? A fourth body was found in the french quarter last night.
Same M.
O.
Another male.
Throat slashed, eviscerated.
A year and a half? That's a long cooling-Off period.
Are we sure this is the same unsub? He claims to be.
He sent a letter to William Lamontagne, The head detective on the case.
Does Lamontagne have any leads? He died in Katrina.
His son is actually leading the case now.
Hmm.
That can't be easy.
Well, we need to pour over the evidence From the first 3 murders and determine the pattern.
Katrina washed everything away.
The 3 victims we know of, their autopsy reports, Witness statements.
DNA test results.
So, basically, all we have to go on is the latest victim? Yeah.
Until he kills again.
Robert Kennedy once said, "Tragedy is a tool for the living to gain wisdom, Not a guide by which to live.
" Hey, Reid.
What's goin' on up there? From Las Vegas Ethan.
I'm pretty sure he lives in New Orleans now.
Really? Gonna give him a call? Grew up competing against each other In absolutely everything.
Spelling bees, science fairs.
We also both had our hearts set on joining the bureau, but First day at quantico he backed out.
He probably just couldn't take the heat.
It's not really for us to judge, is it? Right.
My bad.
These are copies of the newspaper articles on the murders, Dating back to early august 2005.
It's all we have to go on.
He killed 3 times, he stopped for 18 months, Then he started killing again.
We should have garcia run a list Of any offenders in the area.
Anyone who spent the last year and a half doing time.
Or anyone that relocated after Katrina and recently moved back.
What is the victimology in killing a mechanic, A real estate broker, and a cook, With ages ranging from 22 to 45? And this latest is a They just don't seem to have very much in common.
Besides being male and walking the french quarter late at night.
Which is notorious for muggings off the main drag.
Yeah, but this guy isn't in a rush to flee the scene.
A slaughter like this takes time.
Andrei Chikatilo fantasized that the men he killed were his captives And then torturing and mutilating them Somehow made him a hero.
The city's barely back to life.
Something like this could cripple its psyche.
So where do we start? Well, with no case file there's only one place we can start.
At square one.
You must be B.
A.
U.
Bill Lamontagne.
Hi.
Jennifer Jareau.
We spoke on the phone.
Well, ok, then.
I pictured you different.
Uh, these are agents Gideon and Morgan.
This is detective William Lamontagne JR.
Appreciate you guys being here.
My daddy was too stubborn to ever ask for any help.
Sorry for your loss.
I understand you received a letter.
Yeah.
Before they were lost in Katrina, My daddy received 2 letters.
This one came addressed to him yesterday.
They passed it on to me.
You sure it's from the same killer? It's a detailed account of what he did to the body.
sliced through like butter.
I only seen that 3 other times.
You work this case initially? Nah.
You don't forget victims like this.
It's like they were dissected.
I can still smell the alcohol on him.
This is New Orleans.
Dead or alive, it' a smell you get used to.
The victim has no defense wounds.
Meaning this is most likely a blitz attack.
No hesitation marks or rapid thrusts.
Cuts were methodical.
Almost procedural.
My guess Whoever gutted this guy was taught to.
So you think he might have some medical training? How else could he carve around every organ And leave each one intact? Have any of his relatives come to claim the body? Anyone we could speak with? No.
I'll end up boxing up the poor bastard's ashes, Left to collect dust in storage.
All the bodies I've been through in the last year and a half, It's a wonder I still have room.
It'd be pretty easy to hide out in one of these alcoves, Wait for the victim without ever being seen.
Yeah, all 4 murders occurred within a 10-Block radius Here inside the french quarter.
On any given night, there'd have to be thousands of people Walking through here from the bars.
Tens of thousands.
When I first started as a cop, I worked the quarter.
It's like being in the riot squad every night.
Every sunday I'd get off work around sunrise, I'm ready to pass out, My daddy'd be waiting for me at my house.
Make me drive him uptown to Frankie and Johnny's for poorboys.
Called it communing with New Orleans.
Did your father tell you anything else about this case that we should know? He tried to.
But you guys should see that for yourself.
This wall is still standing where daddy carved the message Right before he died.
There's no doubt he's still working from the grave.
"Jones.
" That name mean anything to you? No.
I ran it through the database Against every offender in New Orleans.
And you can imagine how many hits I got.
But nothing came up in connection with this case.
But in your dad's final moments, It was the most important thing he wanted to say.
Learned how to play the drums in this house, Grew up with 2 dogs in this house.
All it's gonna be now is the word "jones" carved into that wall.
Detective, if he had written the unsub's name, I think you would have found him by now.
Jones is the one piece of the puzzle That your daddy did know.
He trusted you to figure out the rest.
Yeah, I know it.
But I've pored over it a thousand times And I still can't put it together.
I can't get it out of my head.
You ok? Yeah.
I just don't want to disappoint him.
Is that the letter from the unsub? Yeah.
I'm back with a vengeance.
I wanted you to know.
The last guy made it easy, being out so late, Stumbling home drunk.
I enjoyed slicing around his organs.
I thought about sending you one.
He was asking to be ripped, don't you think, boss? Yours truly.
" Hey.
Ok.
To say that the victims were asking to be killed Denies all culpability.
Most sexual sadists rationalize their own behavior By blaming the victims like that.
But there was no evidence of sexual assault in the autopsy.
He could be a homosexual male Stabbing because he needs violence for arousal.
Every kill he's acting out a fantasy of revenge.
What if he's trying to act out something else? Like what? Except for the victims were men, it's the same M.
O.
What are you talking about? All 4 victims were found with their throats slashed, eviscerated, And the murders perpetrated in semi-Public places after dark.
Investigators taunted with the letters addressed to "boss.
" The only difference is that case was 100 years ago And the murders took place in London.
Jack the ripper.
The unsub wants us to think That he's the modern-Day version loose in New Orleans.
Please.
Don't So the 3 of you were out together last night? Mark had just paid his tab at one bar And he was on his way to meet us at another.
You guys get in any trouble? Drunken brawl? Anyone get out of hand? We were just out to have fun, you know? Minded our own business.
Could mark have met a girl? Maybe upset her boyfriend? No, sir.
He struck out like we all did.
Thanks, guys.
Ok.
Getting hard to keep up with this guy.
Well, if he's mimicking Jack the ripper, That might be precisely the point.
He terrorized london for months Without ever getting caught.
I'd appreciate it if you'd gather your men.
We'd like to give you a profile of who you're up against.
The offender we're looking for is friendly, Agile, somewhere between 30 and 35.
He'll allure with charm And kill with rage.
We believe he's murdering men To reclaim his power.
This unsub suffers from low self-Esteem, But he probably covers it well.
He dresses impeccably to feed the facade.
Jack the ripper himself Was an impetuous lust murderer, Whereas this offender is organized, Calculating.
He might even stalk his victims for days Before the actual kill.
We believe this killer identifies with Jack the ripper Because he's lost his own identity.
Maybe through years of child abuse Or some catastrophic event.
Because he overcompensates to hide his insecurities, We believe he may hold a position of authority at work.
And since we think he's had medical training, Consider emts, doctors, veterinarians.
Please be careful.
For this unsub, The french quarter's a hunting ground.
He's certainly already proven he knows the terrain.
Jeez! Reid, you scared me.
Always been one step ahead of you, man.
Yeah, whatever helps you sleep at night.
I'm glad you called.
It's good to see you.
You, too.
Let's get a drink.
Prentiss.
What was the thing Jack the ripper took from one of his victims? Besides, well, you know, her life? Oh.
Uh Uh Mmm.
Tick tock Tick tock.
I don't know.
A kidney.
How horrify ingly fantastic is that? Mm-Hmm.
And are you going anywhere with this? Just that I found an unsolved murder that happened 4 months ago In Galveston, Texas, With the same M.
O.
, The victim missing That very organ.
I amaze myself.
Yeah.
Me, too.
Great work.
What's that? Garcia found a similar case in Galveston, Texas.
A lot of Katrina refugees relocated there.
It could be the same guy.
He removed the kidney just like Jack the ripper.
Call Reid and Morgan.
I want the 3 of you on a plane to Texas tonight.
Ok.
So Are you gonna ask the question? What question? Come on, man.
It's me here.
We haven't talked to each other in years.
I know it's why you called me.
Ask the question.
Why did you quit after only one day of fbi training? Well I'm sure you've considered the evidence, Analyzed the signs.
You were battling what's your own demons.
You didn't have time to analyze someone else's.
Not bad.
Not bad.
Those days, I did prefer Jack Daniel's to Jeff Dahmer.
They both weigh on your soul eventually.
Sorry The bat phone.
Let me ask you this, Ethan.
Do you ever regret it? You know, I may not be changing the world, but My music makes me happy.
It doesn't take a profiler to see that you're not.
It's not easy.
And it's not I don't think you'd believe some of the things that I've seen.
John Coltrane.
He was a genius, too.
Died of cancer.
But most people think it was the booze and heroin That did him in.
What are you tryingsay? You look like hell.
I'm fine.
Come on, man.
I'm a jazz musician in New Orleans.
I know what it looks like when someone's not well.
This may be the one time I can tell you something That you don't already know.
That might help you forget, But it won't make it go away.
And if I can tell You're surrounded by some of the best minds in the world, And if you think they don't notice Well For a genius, That's just dumb.
Hey.
Hey.
Where's Reid? I was hoping he was with you.
I thought you said you called him.
I did, 4 times.
Nothing.
The victim's fiancee is expecting us.
What are we supposed to do? We got one option.
Wheels up.
Thank you.
It's not right.
The french quarter's one of the only parts of the city that dodged Katrina.
Now there's a serial killer loose.
It's a small area, And we're narrowing down the profile.
We'll find him.
You always drink while you're still on the clock? This is New Orleans, honey.
It's a cultural thing.
Where are you from? Pennsylvania.
I take it the folks Are a little rigid about the rules up that way.
Well, if it makes you feel better We'll play it Pennsylvania style tonight.
I just hate that this guy has a leg up on us, you know? I promise, as soon as my team knows anything, we'll hear.
Ok? Why aren't you married? Uh, that involves this case how? It doesn't.
I'm just flirtin'.
It's unprofessional.
You don't have to answer that.
Excuse me.
Compliments of the woman in the blue top.
Wow.
That was bold.
She might have thought we were just working.
We are.
Are you jealous? No.
I just I I'm surprised, that's all.
And you're a lousy liar, too.
You haven't had much practice, huh? It's a culture thing.
You see.
There you go.
Everybody kept sayg Crime's gonna skyrocket after the relocation.
You just never think it's gonna happen to you.
The report said that your fiance Was bar-Hopping for his bachelor party On the night he was killed.
We were supposed to be married in october.
He was just out celebrating that with friends.
Was there anyone at Leonard's bachelor party You didn't know? We all grew up together.
They're like family to me.
Whether they met somebody out, you know, That's a different story.
They're a rowdy bunch.
And they'd party with anybody.
Each of the last 2 victims was traveling in a group.
Both were drinking, both in public arenas, bar-Hopping.
So how could their friends not see anything? It like when a lion preys upon an antelope.
You lost me.
That's because you, Emily Prentiss, Have never been one of the antelope.
Oh, scratch that.
You totally lost me.
Ok.
Check this out.
The antelope travel in packs.
So the lion just sits and waits.
Waits for just one of the antelope To break away from its herd.
So when he's alone, Vulnerable, and completely unprotected, That's when the lion strikes.
That's when she makes her move.
Wait a minute.
Her move? Prentiss, there's only one thing That's gonna make a straight man Leave his friends on guys night out.
And it'll make him leave every time.
One of the victims was out for his bachelor party.
Another one out with just the guys.
What's the only temptation That's gonna lure these men away from each other? A woman.
J.
J.
Ok.
Yeah, he's right here with me.
Thanks.
What's going on? The ansub Hey.
good we need to set up a press conference We're not making a media spectacle out of this.
People need to know that this killer is a woman.
What? Listen.
Tourists are just starting to filter back here.
That's not the issue.
I can't create mass hysteria in a city trying to rebuild.
Besides, we'll be playing right into her hands.
So be it.
Look, um I'm trying not to go above your head here.
Yeah.
I got that.
Then set up the press conference.
Hey, you guys are back from Galveston? First light this morning.
Where were you? I was out with a friend.
I already told you.
I called you 4 times.
I didn't have any cell phone reception, So I didn't get your message until late.
Right.
What's going on? Our unsub's a woman.
We just found another body in the quarter.
Throat's been cut.
He's been disemboweled, too.
Reeks of booze.
It's more than a pattern.
Only this time he cut off the earlobe.
She's sticking with the ripper's paradigm.
What do you mean? In one letter of correspondence, Jack the ripper promised to cut the earlobe off Of his next victim.
He did.
It was the one day that he killed twice.
So she's gonna kill again by the end of the day.
Ok, what do we know about female serial killers? Basically, you have 2 types.
The sante kimes model.
Cold, calculating.
Preys on men for money.
Takes her time building relationships.
It's more likely we're dealing with The aileen wuornos archetype, Motivated by paranoia and fear, Luring men with sex.
Our unsub's organized.
She follows a routine.
She meets men in a bar, flirts with them over drinks, And suggests that they consummate the evening in an alley.
We need to be in those streets.
Office just brought me this.
Dear boss, By now I have rid the world of one more.
So many men, so little time.
I hope you don't mind the mess.
They make is so easy, I just can't help myself.
Yours truly.
So were looking for a woman who will approach men, Comfortable being the aggressor, no? And I'm guessing she'd have to be quite attractive In order to lure them away.
Most of the women are out in groups, So keep your eyes open for someone on their own.
"So many men, so little time.
" So she's on a quest To wipe out the race.
Or the father who molested her? Some people think Jack the ripper mutilated women After his mother sexually abused him for years.
For someone so enraged This unsub sounds oddly apologetic For leaving a bloody crime scene.
Why? That might be what Lamontagne figured out Right before he died.
You gotta admit, these guys are making it pretty easy.
I wouldn't follow a stranger into an alley No matter how wasted I was.
Yeah, but you're not a man.
Testosterone will follow a woman to Thailand.
Barefoot.
It's just a fact.
Did you give that newest letter to Reid? He knows that ripper case inside out.
He might see something I'm missing.
I don't think, uh What is it? Nothing.
Come on.
You think I'm not aware something's going on with him? You gonna tell me why you missed that flight to Galveston? I already told you.
It was no cell reception.
Right.
What? I mean, anytime you want to come up With a better answer, I'm standing right here.
Dark Curls, 3 o'clock.
I got it.
She's eyeing those guys outside that bar.
Let's go.
Oh! Oh, I'm I'm sorry.
I hate it when that happens.
You all right? What can I do to say I'm sorry? How about a drink? Have a drink.
That's cool.
That's cool.
Sure.
Yeah, that's totally fine.
Yeah Yeah.
Danny.
You fool.
You dropped your wallet out there.
Thanks.
Next drink is on me.
So Where are your friends tonight? I didn't bring any.
They get in the way.
Now, see, I like that.
'Cause, uh, most girls, They won't go nowhere alone.
I'm not most girls.
We got nothin'.
Well, the day's almost over, So if you're right, we just ran out of time.
Your hair's wet.
Oh, my god! Aah! She's mocking us.
And she's true to her word.
Do you have any tweezers? Thank you.
What is that? I have no idea.
It's a note from the unsub, Addressed to your father.
Let's see it.
Dear boss, He wanted it, With that sharp tongue and vulgar hand.
Thought you'd like to know Another will soon get what he deserves.
Yours truly.
It's weird.
Typically, offenders write letters to be heard.
Jack the ripper bragged about not being caught.
This unsub isn't using correspondence To flaunt her latest kill, Only to explain why she did it.
It's possible she considers herself a vigilante.
That the men she's killing deserve to die.
Or maybe she's contacting your father, Not because he was the lead detective On the case, but Because she believes he'd understand.
You think he knew her somehow? Can you think of a woman in your dad's life He helped through a tough time? Might be another police officer, I don't know, a prostitute he helped get off the street? He hasn't dealt with prostitutes Since he worked sex crimes.
The unsub wrote, "he was asking to be ripped.
" "I just couldn't help myself," and he wanted it.
" What if she's mirroring the man who raped her? Where are the files stored from your sex crime division? They were housed the same place as homicide.
Most of them were washed away.
Did your dad have a partner? Yeah.
J.
R.
Smith.
Smitty, they called him.
He might remember something.
Yeah, but they had a falling out.
What about? I don't know.
They stopped talking when he left sex crimes.
Do you have a problem calling him? Not if it means breaking this case.
May I borrow your hand for a minute? I'll be damned.
What is it? The stamp on the victim's hand It's admittance into the mon cherie.
It's a bar in the french quarter.
Oh, yeah? Yeah.
Bingo.
Get Garcia on the horn.
O captain, my captain.
I need you.
Anything.
Talk to me.
Is there any newspaper reports About a rape at a bar called Jones? Zilch.
You sure? It would have beenav About 9 years ago.
Nada.
Ok.
Uh Cross-Reference William Lamontagne With Jones bar.
Bull's-Eye.
Police blotter Answered a disturbance At Jones bar in the french quarter, February 19, 1998.
Looks like it was during mardi gras.
You are the best ever.
Ohh and you're the most perceptive.
Smitty.
How are you? I hope you got a good reason Dredging this crap up.
Well, I was hoping You might remember being called here With my daddy 9 years ago.
Is that a joke? No.
My name's Jason Gideon.
We're from the FBI.
We're investigating the series of murders In the french quarter.
What's that got to do with me? We need you to tell us what happened The night you and detective Lamontagne answered the call In this bar.
Am I missing something? You really don't know, do you? After that night, your daddy Tried to bring me up on sanctions.
Why? It was mardi gras.
Some girl claimed she was raped.
In this bar.
I wasn't buying it.
What did she say happened to her? Brass backed me up.
They ended up transferring your daddy out To shut him up.
What happened here? It almost cost me my career.
Do you mind telling us what happened? My best recollection, She said she was sitting at the bar With 2 friends.
One of the boys asked her if she wanted to play some pool.
Witnesses claim she was up for anything.
She followed him up here? His friend not far behind.
She knew he was there.
That girl was a tease.
She was looking for a good time.
Anyway, a couple of guys were going along with that.
Did she yell for help? She said she did.
But not a single person claimed that they heard her.
That's what you registered as a disturbance? It was mardi gras.
Listen to me.
That girl had enough beads hanging from her neck To jewel a small city.
Anyone exposes themselves that much in one day Is not a credible witness in my book.
But she wanted to press charges.
I told her it was a waste of time.
I knew one of the accused.
He was a good kid.
He didn't need the stink of that accusation.
So you protected a rapist? Well, that right there Was a bone of contention between his daddy and i.
As far as I was concerned, No such rape ever took place.
Are you gonna tell me Why you went and dragged this dirt back through my life? You know the serial killer Who's cutting up men in the french quarter? She was your victim.
We're trying to find a name.
You don't even remember her name? It was 9 years ago.
What about the name of the "good kid" who raped her? Smitty You tell me right now or I'll file a new sanction against you, And I guarantee you, this time it'll stick.
Mr.
Tibideaux, we need you to answer a few questions About a disturbance you were involved with in 1998.
I don't know what you're talking about.
At a bar called Jones.
It was mardi gras.
Well, then, I must have been drinking some, 'Cause I don't remember a thing.
We just need to know the name Look, I told you, I don't know what you're talking about.
The statute of limitations is up.
We just need a name.
Someone accuses me of rape, ­ I'm going to remember her name.
What can I tell you, cher? I guess she didn't make that good of an impression.
Unlike yourself, right now.
You know, I'm guessing if someone Did do something to that girl that night, Then she was probably asking for it.
Maybe even liked it.
Guy's not giving up anything.
Right after the double murder, What was the ripper's next move? He mutilated and dismembered Mary Kelly In her one-Room flat until she was unrecognizable.
It's believed to be his most vicious kill of all.
'Cause he had privacy.
And time to torture his victim before killing her.
Maybe we're not too late.
She murdered these men, And I'm guessing it's only a matter of time Before she works her way back to the one She really wants to kill.
She make an impression now? Work me.
We have a name Sarah Danlin.
I need an address.
It looks like she was a med student at tulane, But she dropped out.
Let me guess February 1998.
Yeah.
Thanks.
We got her.
I'm John, by the way.
John.
Take off your clothes.
Sarah Danlin, F.
B.
I.
! Open the door.
The things I'm gonna do to you.
Me first.
F.
B.
I.
! Clear.
Clear.
She's not here.
Guys, there are some ripperologists Who speculate that Mary Kelly Was actually killed in a flat That Jack the ripper rented for the night.
I'm going to have Garcia check Sarah Danlin's Credit card accounts.
It's a long shot, But maybe we can trace her room back to her charge cards.
Aah! What the hell was that? Shh.
You're crazy.
You never did explain those "things" you could do to me.
Souvenirs.
These are from bars in the french quarter.
This is from mon cherie.
She's trolling for victims in the place where it all began.
She can't move on.
The rape isn't the whole story.
I'll bet there's a history of sexual abuse That contributes to her rage as well.
It's almost like by taking on the ripper persona, She was trying to kill something within herself.
Yeah, mama, what do you got? Sarah Danlin's visa was charged An hour ago at the Royal Ruby Inn.
Ah, baby girl, you never disappoint.
Thank you.
Royal Ruby Inn.
That's 2 blocks from here.
Let's go Please! Please.
Please.
I have I have children.
Stop Please.
You asked FBI! Drop the knife.
Drop the weapon.
He wanted it and he got it.
Put it down now.
We need an emt tech right away.
What are you waiting for? Ma'am, we don't want to shoot you.
Be such a shame to waste this.
Do you want it, too? What I want is for you to put that knife down.
Come on.
Don't fight it.
Sarah, we don't want to hurt you.
Men.
Sarah, my name's William Lamontagne JR.
You knew my daddy? Yeah, yeah.
You trusted him.
So trust me.
Where is he? The storm took him.
Come on.
It's over.
It's over.
Hey.
Hey there.
The medic says that her victim's going to be ok.
I heard what you did in there.
Your dad would be really proud.
It's weird.
I spent all this time focused on closing this case for him And now it's over.
Yeah.
I thought I'd feel happy, but I just feel lost.
Because you've And now you're leaving? How will I survive a woman like you going so far away? Well, despite what you may have heard Cell phones can be very good for your health.
See ya.
How'd you find me? You're not all that hard to profile.
Your friend is good.
I missed that plane on purpose.
I know.
I'm struggling.
Well anybody who's been through What you've been through recently Would.
This is all I was groomed for.
I never even I never even considered another option.
Now you're questioning whether or not You're strong enough to be here? Yeah.
I have been playing at this job In one way or another for almost 30 years.
I've felt lost.
I've felt great.
I have felt scared, Sick, And insane.
I don't know.
I guess the day this job stops gnawing at your soul and Hands your hands stop feeling cold Maybe that's the time to leave.
I guess I just needed to try to figure out If I could step away from this job.
And? I'll never miss another plane again.