Previously on Criminal Minds.
Police in Dayton Ohio need our help with a serial rapist.
He was waiting for them when they got home.
We need a female undercover.
- Do you think Elle's ready for it? - I'm good.
What's she doing with her gun out? - She's panicking.
- Easy, esay FBI! Get out of the car, get on the ground! - I was just checking my - Shut up! I was just stopping to look at my map.
Don't say another word.
- You're letting him walk? - The only reason he's walking is because you panicked.
I'm supposed to believe that you've got my back.
The last time you sent me home, Hotch, you got me shot.
You've made a lot of women very happy.
I didn't let you walk.
Thank you.
Hey Lee.
I got you message.
Close the door.
This is William Lee's case file.
Sit down.
The Bureau has concluded its internal investigation.
And they accept your claim that you went to Lee's house to confront him.
And that you defended yourself when he attacked.
As your supervising agent, I've ordered a psychological status report.
After the Bureau's cleared me? I don't need a shrink Hotch.
That's up to me to make that assesment.
You think I'm lying.
You know you're not a prosecutor anymore.
You're the only one who knows what really happened that night.
And I think you need to be honest with yourself since you've got to live with for the rest of your life.
I appreciate your concern.
- I'm fine - Are you? - Yeah.
- You're anxious, you're on edge, unnoticed.
More than Reid, or Morgan? Neither of them confronted a suspect - and then shot and killed him.
- Yeah because they didn't find themselves in the position that they needed to do so.
I've been doing this long enough, I know hypervigilance when I see it.
Your first evaluation is in a hour.
Not everyone's an unsub.
Don't be late.
You're the boss.
None of us are safe.
The little boy, he's only like 6.
No one ever saw him again.
What happened to him? He's walking alone in the woods, and then, step on something wet.
And we he looked closer, he realized that was blood.
Everywhere.
Then he heard something coming from behind him.
Something, coming after him.
He kept looking behind, to see what it was.
But whatever it was, he just kept chasing.
And then, he ran into this old man.
When he tried to ask for help, the old man just smiled back.
With the sharp fangs stripping with blood.
He tried to back away, but before he could, he was tortured, and eaten! By by who? That evil old man, he watches us all the time.
Just watches us, from the big old house on the hill.
The one that's haunted.
Why does he watch us? Cause he wants to eat one of us.
He's just deciding who's next.
Next to be haunted like deer.
Skinned.
Eaten.
Yep.
It's just a matter of time.
Nicholas Faye of Ozona, Texas, was beaten to death roughly 13 hours ago.
Blunt force trauma to the head, he's the second young boy in Ozona to die the same death in the last 2 months.
Local hunter found his body in the woods.
First victim's name: Robbie Davis.
- Are these boys connected somehow? - Ozona's population's roughly 2,500.
Everyone has some kind of connection.
Well if they weren't linked before, they most certainly are now.
Both murdered by the same offender.
He's hunting children.
Morning.
- A moment sir? - What's up? Agent Greenaway never showed for her evaluation last night.
- You're kidding? - The notice came through this morning.
I called 3 times, left messages, but she isn't calling back.
Thank you.
It doesn't look good.
No, let's be honest, we know exactly what it looks like.
Elle let emotion get in her way.
And it goes against everything we stand for.
So don't you make the same mistake? She's innocent'til proven guilty.
I know.
I go to Texas, you find Elle.
Plato wrote: "We can easily forgive a child who's afraid of the dark.
The real tragedy of life, is when men are afraid of the light.
" You guys see Elle's cleared? - Self defense.
- So it was good shoot.
She hit what she was aiming for.
That's not what I meant.
I know.
If they cleared her how come she's not here with us? Or Hotch? Focus on the case! Ozona Police and autopsy report for Nicholas Faye and Robbie Davis.
Well the bludgeoning could suggest frustration or rage.
With no apparent sexual motivation.
That's rare when the victims are this young.
This Unsub seems to be taking pleasure from the kill itself.
So if it's not sexual, what's the significance of targeting young males? Most serial killers pray upon specific types to carry out their fantasies of revenge.
Bundy killed women that looked like an ex-girlfriend who jolted him, Dahmer claimed that schoolyard harassment fed into his fury.
Ok, so then maybe these kids reprensent someone who victimized the offender.
Like a young male from his past, maybe a bully older brother, someone who abused him.
No, that's unlikely.
They just found another body.
What would the victimology just suddenly change? Maybe the girl wasn't the target, maybe she just got in the way.
Or the sex of his victim is insignificant.
Pace his killings certainly indicates a velocity of change.
We can't surveil every kid in Ozona, how we just keep them all safe? Enforce a curfew? Children shouldn't have to worry about something like that.
Tell me about it.
The woods were the only thing I was afraid of when I was a kid.
Seriously? - I thought you grew up in a small town? - Yeah, surrounded by woods! - Yeah, bummer for you! - Yeah.
The only thing I was afraid of was the dark.
Some of us still are When we land, Morgan and Reid, go to the new crime scene.
The little girl.
I'll look at the scene where Nicholas Faye was found.
This is where he dumped the body.
This isn't a dump site.
Murder happened right here.
Autopsy report indicates no signs of a struggle.
Poor little guy never had a chance.
So far into these woods, no one could hear him scream.
Exactly how is killer wanted it.
For the last two months, we've lost more children in this town we have in my whole lifetime.
The others are car accidents.
Residents are terrified.
I have an 8 year old myself.
Victims knew their killer.
Followed him to this spot.
What makes you think that? Well I guess they went this deep into the woods because they trusted him.
Probably stashed his weapon here beforehand.
This means we're looking for someone intelligent, methodical.
Methodical? Bashed the kid's head in, looks like a moment of rage to me! I agree.
It's confusing.
Doesn't make sense.
This is just a quarter mile from where the two boys were killed.
Bludgeoned to death the same way.
Not entirely true.
I found some markings on her scalp that indicated that that psycho - beat her post mortem.
- Suggests the unsub - is getting more brazen.
- He's getting brazen all right, I've bagged three children in the last month.
And now he's spending more time wih the victims even after death.
He had to know he wasn't gonna be interrupted but how? How could he be so sure? Forest goes for miles and miles, nobody goes walking in it.
So looking to kill.
Or hunt.
In which case he knows every inch of these woods, right? Every trail? Reid, whoever killed these children is very familiar with this area.
In my opinion he probably lived in Ozona his whole life.
It could be someone you know.
Or it could be a stranger you pass at the grocery store.
But it's vital that we keep our eyes open.
And our chidren close.
Now as Ozona's guidance counselor, I can only help your children with the aftermath, but our police department is working with the FBI, gathering information on the case, to elaborate on that, agent Jason Gideon.
We want you to know we're doing everything we can to find the person responsible.
Until we do there are number of precautions that you'll need to take.
Just let me go over some of them with you.
First and foremost, It's something we call the buddy system.
That means you always go everywhere with a friend.
That's right because bad men and women are more likely to talk to us only when we're by ourselves.
We don't know what these guys look like yet.
Might be someone you know.
Yes sweetheart, you got a question? There was this little girl once on the news, who just got grabbed.
Right in front of her house.
Could that happen to us? Nothing's gonna happen to any of you, as long as you remember this buddy system, okay? Anymore questions? Did you ever find his hat? - Excuse me? - She's Nicholas Faye's mother.
The red one that I put on him, he had it on when he left.
I'm sorry Mrs Faye, we haven't.
Mandatory curfew at 5PM.
make sure you know where your children are.
You just gotta move fast, old man Fennigan can't eat you if he can't catch you.
- I want to go home.
- Come on, just ring the guy's bell.
- Why don't you do it? - I already did, when I was like 5.
It's just the wind.
Now come on, it'll be fun! - Not if he catches me! - Come on, it'll be easy! Just ring and run.
We'll be right here.
Yeah, now go.
Go! - Go.
- Go! Let's go.
Henry? Simon? Hotchner.
Hey Hotch, what's happening? I went to her appartment to talk to her but she was leaving - with an overnight bag.
- So she's running? I don't know, I hope not.
- I'm following her.
- All right, keep me posted.
Just wait for me up front.
- No wandering.
- Okay dad! It's too scary to let him out of your sight! I know.
Can I have your attention, please? Good afternoon.
We want to make something clear.
Due to the velocity of change, we predict this offender could try to strike again anytime.
His confidence builds with every attack.
Look for someone physically fit, shy.
Kind disposition, someone you may trust with your own child.
Because the killer targets kids, he may be small himself.
I know we keep referring to this Unsub as "he", do not rule out a woman.
- Excuse me! - Chief! You're gonna want to hear this.
My son Matthew never came home today.
- Here we go.
- Where was he last seen? His teacher saw him in the parking lot after school.
Search team.
Okay Reid.
School is on Willow road.
The boy was abducted.
This area would be the most secluded nearby.
So Jones could route his guys to the gas station, - we could cover territories - Maam! Why don't you sit down.
- Let's get some backup on Willow road.
- Thank you.
So how old is Matthew? He turned 8 in august.
I have a niece that's 8.
Very resourceful at that age.
What are you thinking about over here? Nothing.
Well you look an awful upset to be thinking about nothing.
You look like you have a secret.
Secrets are important.
Is it about your brother? Honey? Is that true, are you hiding something? You want to protect him right? That's what brothers are for.
Manny said he was just clawing the doorbell.
At the haunted house.
- On the hill.
- It's Fennigan's place.
- Who's Fennigan? - This old guy who is in the house.
Forever kind of a local legend.
- Ghost story.
- About? He supposably watches the kids from his window, Hunts them, skins them, eats them.
- Standard.
- Folks have been telling that story - since I was a kid.
- Why haven't we heard about that? Fables are often sparked by an ounce of truth.
We should exhaust every possibility.
I'm sorry dad.
You've been following me.
What's going on? Elle, I'm listening.
Okay.
I really wanted to be a part of the team.
- You were.
- But when I needed the team, I was all alone.
I was alone in the one place that I have the right to feel safe and that's my home.
Just like those women in Ohio who were attacked had the right to feel safe in their homes.
So does that justify taking the law into your own hands? What makes you say that I have? Because you're here confessing your sins.
I know I don't have any evidence, and you know how quickly I'd arrest you if I did.
So what are we gonna do about it? Sure looks like a haunted house.
Morgan, you and Jones take the front, Reid and I'll cover the outbuildings.
Come on.
Mr Fennigan! Go.
Clear.
Go, go.
Upstairs is clear.
Fennigan's not here.
And either is the missing boy.
Electricity's out.
I know.
Maybe he's been away.
No, this paper was delivered today.
So Fennigan was here earlier.
Yeah question is, where is he know? Stairwell.
FBI, don't move! Okay.
- Are you Matthew? - Yes.
- Are you hurt? - No.
Ok, come on.
I didn't want the old man to find me.
That's all right, no one's gonna hurt you.
Come on.
Let's go.
- Did you get anything? - Only that Fennigan's house on the hill is like the Bates Motel of Ozona, Texas.
You know we heard the legend.
Reid, seriously, people that go into that house supposedly never come out.
Spookie! Garcia, could at least pretend not to enjoy that rumour so much, since I've actually entered the house? Sensitive.
Sorry.
Besides, local police say that there are no reports of that actually happening.
Yeah this is true, all complaints filed were false alarms.
But then there is that matter of his missing wife.
Wife, what wife? When did she go missing? Almost 50 years ago.
No record of her ever being found? I got two words for you, my friend: "rear window".
That guy probably chopped that lady up into delicious bites and little pieces.
Think about it.
She may have never left the premises.
She may still be in the house Garcia, I'm sitting here in the dark alone, thanks.
While you're waiting for a potential murderer to come home? It's kind of dangerous! It's kinda sexy! I gotta go.
You're having creepy fun, I wish I as there! - You really are afraid of the dark.
- I'm working on that.
You should work a little harder! My deputy got the boy home safe.
Turns out the poor kid got spooked by a tree branch.
This whole town's on edge.
Maybe that's why Fennigan's in the wind.
Chat's interesting.
The Unsub didn't use a gun.
And he knows every trail in Ozona.
Fennigan's an avid hunter.
Why didn't he use Robbie Davis First victim.
Sarah P.
Sarah Peterson right? I guess Fennigan brought the kids back here first before baiting them into the woods.
But why wouldn't he get rid of the evidence? Considers them trophies.
When this is all said and done, I'd like to hang his head on my wall.
Sheriff called the search off, we located the boy.
He's home.
- Safe and sound.
- What about old man Fennigan? I think we just found him.
At first blush, it looks like Joseph Fennigan died of natural causes.
His heart probably gave out while he was setting this.
Yeah karma's a bitch.
Those coyotes were on and on for all week.
Before the second and third murders ever happened.
This area's off a traveled path, it's a wonder anyone discovered him at all.
Is it? Those leaves didn't cover him up by themselves.
He's right.
The deputy may not have been the first that found him.
Our only suspect's been cleared.
Square one? No.
Fennigan's been dead all this time, who's living in his house? Let's go.
Here's a question: if a tree falls in the forest, does it make a sound if there's nobody there to hear it? - What the hell are you reading over there? - Just thinking.
The Unsub found Fennigan's corpse in a lightly traveled part of the woods and no one else knew.
So he was able to use his house and no one was the wizer.
Actually I was referring to Fennigan's wife.
- What are you talking about? - She was rumoured missing, perhaps killed almost 50 years ago.
When in actuality she left Fennigan for another man.
He writes about it in his journals.
How he would look out the window on a daily basis to see if she would come home, she never did.
He never recovered, he ended up turning into a recluse that people in town misunderstood.
Found something.
Provisions.
Delivered by the church to every elder's doorstep.
Each one dated after Fennigan died.
So the Unsub ate everything.
Almost everything.
Unopened bowls of cream spinach thrown into the trash.
- Each one wrapped with ductape.
- One with each tray.
So we're looking for a guy who really really hates spinach.
- Who doesn't? - Ritualized, meticulous, organized.
He would eat with the same particulars.
All prints, have Garcia run them for a match.
Hotch.
It's about Elle, isn't it? - I don't know.
- You know I talked to her in Ohio.
- Reid, we all talked to her.
- No, I talked to her before I went to her room one night, and she was drinking.
She almost died.
I'd be drinking too.
About the woods, JJ.
Your fear.
You said it was of the woods.
I used to be a camp councelor, when I was a teenager.
In the woods up in Vermont, at the night shift, tucked the girls in, turned off the lights.
The typical drill.
Everything seemed fine, all the kids were asleep.
You know, nothing seemed out of the ordinary.
Until I noticed there was some blood, on the hallway floor.
So I followed the blood trail out to the camp director's cabin, walked up to his bed and he was just lying there, underneath his covers.
Dead.
Someone stabbed him.
I ran out of there so fast, out the door, down the hall, I just remember it, being really dark.
Once I got to the door, there was another councelor there, I guess she heared me scream.
They caught the caretaker on his way to town, I guess he still had the knife on him.
Anyway, I guess that's probably when I decided I didn't like the woods.
You're serious? No! No! Come on.
I don't know why I'm afraid of the woods, I just I am, why is he still afraid of the dark? Yeah Reid, why are you still afraid of the dark? Because of the inherent absence of light! JJ, that was pretty good, - just know that paybacks are a bitch.
- I'm shaking.
Yeah.
I love our relationship, we hardly need words.
Hey girl, you got something good for me? I pulled two sets of prints off those food trays.
- Two? - One belonging to a child.
But which one of the victims, why don't you coordinate with the Ozona coroner's office - for a match? - Oh baby, that's so yesterday! I already have the minions working on it.
In the meantime, your intrepid hacker found you a match to the other set in the database.
His name is James Charles, he's a local guidance councelor.
Yeah he's local guidance councelor helping us on this case! Kidding? He's address is 3725 Bryarwood road.
I know exactly how to find him, Garcia, thanks.
Call Gideon, we just found our Unsub.
Sure about this? Charles? Born and raise in Ozona, knows the territory, works with children.
Highly organized, slight in stature, injected himself into the investigation.
What do you think happened the last six months that would have changed his life? His wife walked out on him and his kid.
There's your stressor.
Guys, he's on the move.
Mr Charles! Don't do it! Why are you running? Give me this.
What's this? What's this? What's so important about the hat? Nicholas Faye was wearing it when he was murdered.
Here's a deal.
I could stand here and tell you what I think you were doing in Fennigan's house for the last two weeks.
Or you could do us all a favor.
Sign a confession, maybe get a little something taken off your time, what do you say? I never stepped inside Fennigan's house.
That's not really the answer I was looking for James.
See.
Fact is, we got your fingerprints, inside the house, all over the trays of food.
Of course you did.
I deliver them every week.
It's true.
He started working working at the food bank after his wife left.
Fingerprints aren't all we have.
What are you doing with Nicholas Faye's hat? Maybe, you were trying to dispose of it.
Or were you so proud of your keeps that you just want to find a nice safe place to hide it? How these last 6 months've been for you James? Not too good huh? I don't know, your whole life is falling apart isn't it? Oh yeah you got to be feeling a loss of control, sense of abandonment.
And I would guess, a little impotent maybe? Come on man, give me something! Why did your life leave you? What happened James, she get bored? I mean you don't seem all that exciting to me.
She started feeling a little uninspired? You're not a minute man, aren't you? Uh, that's what it is! You're done before she even get started, she left you for another man Okay! James, that was exciting! Did I hit a nerve? - I want to go home.
- Oh you wanna go home? Well I'm sorry, that ain't about to happen.
So why don't you come over here and sit your ass down? I said sit down! I'm done talking to you.
I will tell you what you are done doing, you hear me? Yeah, what did you found out? The second set of prints didn't match any of the victims.
So there might be a fourth victim still out there.
Check surrounding towns for missing children reports and get right back to me.
You know, it's bad enough his mother left and now his father's in custody and- we've got to take the poor kid into child services.
- It's the law - So is jaywalking.
I don't like it.
Good afternoon this is agent Jareau, with the FBI, we're gonna be picking up Jeffrey Charles in about 20 minutes, if Okay, I see.
Thank you.
What is it? James, I can't help you.
if you don't talk, I can't help you.
Jeffrey never was at school today.
His father said he was sick.
Something! Yeah.
Yeah, I got it, I got it.
What were you doing? Working your way up to the victim you wanted to kill the most? Your son? What did you do with him James? Are you really that weak, you've got to blame your own kid - for your failed marriage? - Shut up! No you talk to me! Cause I need to understant this.
You beat those children who trusted you, why? So you could regain your power? I've got a news flash for you: You never had any to begin with.
That's right keep it coming, keep it coming.
I am so far from finish with you, you son of a bitch.
I will go all night, you understand me? You make me sick! What is that? It's an EpiPen.
Weird.
Think I just found something.
Yeah.
An EpiPen, and a refrigirator that's filled with dairy products that have been sealed with ductape.
Thank you, that's helpful.
You know what happens to guys, who mess with kids, on the inside? - Do you? - Can I have a word with him? Yeah.
It's a rough day, huh? Coffee? Yeah I wouldn't mind.
Milk? - Please.
- So when? When? How long have you known? Known what? That your son is a murderer? What are you talking about? You might have been- the one who brought the food trays to Fennigan's, but Your son ate them, everything but the cream spinach.
You want me to confess? Is that what this game is? That's fine.
You bring me another pen, I'll write out my confession.
We found an EpiPen in your kitchen.
So what that proves that my kid has an allergy.
To milk.
- How did you know that? - You just told me.
What's the matter? Jeffrey's allergy's dangerous.
So much, so he wrapped the only dairy product with ductape so he wouldn't accidentally eat it.
You taught him all to protect himself.
I found the baseball cap.
I found it this morning.
It was in my son's drawer.
Where is he Mr.
Charles? - Jason! - Cut it out! Cut it out - Let's go Simon.
- Let's go Simon.
Where are you going? We're supposed to walk each other home! I'm walking to Henry's.
But he doesn't live in our street! I'll walk you home.
- Hey Jeffrey - Because you shoudn't be walking alone.
You know, the whole "buddy system".
Yeah, that's really nice of you, thanks.
Come on, I know a shortcut.
Where is he Mr Charles? - I left him at home.
- Well he's not there.
If he's not there, I don't know where he is.
An 8 year old girl, Tracey Belle, has been reported missing.
Last seen getting off her schoolbus on Fuller Road.
Get it to your field units, we'll need backup.
Let's go.
- Give Mac and the second unit Fuller Road.
- Yes, sir.
How much longer? You're walking to slow.
This book bag is heavy.
My legs are tired.
- Why did you do that? - Shut up! Keep walking.
I don't feel good.
I told you to shut up! You know, after his mom left Jeffrey probably resented the fact that his dad spends more time at work with other kids than with his own.
He took out that rage on any kid he viewed, as having what he didn't.
So Tracey's mom said the bus would have dropped her off here after school she was supposed to walk home with a neighbor.
It's most likely when Jeffrey approched, but where he'd taken her? Such heavy patrolling in this town.
How did he managed to take a little without being seen? Because we taught him.
Nobody's gonna think anything of two kids walking together.
The buddy system, remember? In the process of educating the public, we educated a killer.
When it's off season from baseball, where would a 12 year old kid hang out? - A park.
- Surrounded by woods.
Let's go.
Tracey! Let's just go home.
I was only playing! Why do you have to be such a baby? Tracey? Tracey! Tracey Belle's.
He's got her in these woods.
Split up! Enough! - Are you okay? - Yeah.
Why did you hurt those kids? Because I wanted to.
I should have said something.
What? To Gideon or Hotch, or Any of you guys.
I talked to Elle that night, and I knew she wasn't right, but.
I should have told someone.
Reid.
Listen to me.
Do not do that to yourself.
You were just trying to help a friend.
You hear me? Don't go there kid.
Elle made her own choice.
That's on her.
She hasn't admitted anything? No.
Well, you're doing the right thing.
Yeah I know that.
So see you in a few hours.
Okay.
Gideon? Yeah.
Tell him I say goodbye.
This is not an admission of guilt.
Right.
You know when I first started this job, this sound of my phone ringing, a call from the Bureau, I used to get so excited the blood would race through my veins.
And now, that same sound paralyzes me.
I'm not the same person anymore.
That night at Lee's, if I had to do it all over again, I wouldn't change a thing.
Even though you killed someone.
I guess that's it then.
You know, when I first joined the team, I couldn't figure out why you never ever smile.
Now I think I'm actually gonna miss that.
I'm gonna miss you too.