National news network How may I direct your call? There's going to be an explosion this morning - Excuse me? - I said, there will be an explosion this morning.
A bomb.
Oh, Sorry.
Did you say a bomb, sir? - Sir? - On a bus in the city where it all began.
Get my message out.
Message? What message? That this is only the beginning.
Until it is brought back under control, people will die.
Hey! Mornin', JJ.
How was your weekend? Yeah? Homeland security just reported a bomb threat for an unspecified urban area.
It was phoned into the national news network - I'll call you back.
When? - Last half hour.
- They need a threat assessment ASAP.
- Get the team together.
Yeah.
I'm sorry, Did you say a bomb, sir? On a bus in the city where it all began.
Get my message out.
Message? What message? That this is only the beginning.
Until it is brought back under control, people will die.
In the last 20 minutes, virtually identical threats have been made to most of the coast-to-coast news networks in the country.
It's the same information just slightly different words.
So it's not a recorded message or script.
Displays a measure of confidence.
He could have easily just called one network.
This guy obviously wants attention.
It's typical behavior for a personal cause bomber.
One bomb has a finite impact.
It's just a little package.
Make bunch of phone calls, that magnifies my explosion 100 times.
We have the additional recorded calls being gathered for assessment.
Networks say the calls came from a restricted number.
Two have given limited permission to trap and trace the lines if we should need to.
You got a news organization to agree to a trap and trace? Who could say "no" to me? This is not likely Al-Qaeda.
They don't call unless they bomb something.
At Homeland security's request, the networks are going to keep this quiet - until we've assessed the situation.
- It doesn't feel like a hoax.
His voice is calm, resigned.
He's made his decision.
He's committed to it.
Plus he said: "This is only the beginning" The beginning of what ? And he also said: "until it is brought back under control".
What's it? He has to call back.
And if this threat isn't followed by an event, no one will take any future calls seriously.
So, we're going to tell the media to go ahead with the story? Absolutely not.
Threats like this, with an unspecified location will just cause tremendous panic.
Then, what are we gonna do? Unfortunately, all we can do is wait.
Robespierre wrote: "Crime butchers innocence to secure a prize And innocence struggles with all its might against the attempts of crime".
So Seattle's where it all began.
We just need to figure out what it is.
And off the top of my head, I can think of grunge music and overpriced coffee.
That doesn't seem significant enough for terrorism.
It's a personal cause bomber.
It only needs to be of significance to him.
Agent Nick Casey, Seattle field office.
S.
S.
A.
Hotchner, how do you do? This is Dr.
Spencer Reid, S.
S.
A.
Morgan, agent Jareau, and S.
S.
A.
Gideon.
Have you identified the device? Looks like a small pipe bomb attached to an umbrella I'd like to take a look at those bomb fragments as soon as possible - I've got bomb squad experience.
- As soon as they're catalogued.
How many people were on the bus when the explosion went off? Explosion killed two.
The driver and a young male.
Injured seven.
A pipe bomb on a crowded city bus and only two people are killed? Had a relatively small charge.
The two dead were found closest to the bomb at the time of detonation.
Sylvia Cohen, an elderly passenger, found the umbrella on the floor at her feet.
She said the young man volunteered to take it to the driver for her.
She's pretty broken up about it.
Have you vetted and debriefed the rest of the passengers? I have their info if you want to talk to them.
- Did you get their positions? - Sorry? Where they were on the bus? No.
JJ, maybe you can recontact the passengers - and map their locations.
- Yeah, you got it Nobody saw anyone leave the umbrella? No.
But, you know, from the style it looks like a remote detonator on the corner over there.
- You say remote? - Limited frequency remote.
- Like a garage door opener? - Something like that.
That's awfully risky.
Anyone on this bus could have accidentally detonated the bomb - just by pulling out of their garage.
- That's right.
He used a remote from the corner.
Did he want to be close enough to see what happened Or did he need to be mechanically? Those remotes are pretty limited.
He probably needed to be.
Then he might have been nervous.
Maybe that made him stand out.
I could set up a public service announcement encouraging anyone who was in the area of the time of the bombing to contact us.
Well, we do need a press conference.
But it'll be about getting this unsub to call us.
We're still trying to determine what happened.
Initial reports called it a bomb, but since no one has claimed responsibility, we can't rule out some kind of mechanical failure.
Supervisory Special Agent Gideon will be handling any future communication on this incident.
If anyone has any information they feel might be helpful, please contact S.
S.
A.
Gideon at the number appearing on your screen.
We will keep you posted with future developments.
Thank you.
Do you think that was enough? It will definitely stress him that his message isn't getting out.
- What if he doesn't call? - Reid and Morgan are going over the device.
Maybe they'll come up with something.
You know, Reid, the bomber could have bought this detonator at any old toy store You take a remote control car, plane, boat, attach a detonator like this to the motor, touch the remote, boom! Instant fourth of july.
How you doing? I'm Derek Morgan.
This is dr.
Spencer Reid.
We're with the B.
A.
U.
Cassondra Atkins.
Cass or Cassy works, too.
Bomb tech.
- It's a really nice reconstruction.
- Oh, it wasn't that hard Explosive was limited and the fragments were comparatively easy to locate.
Okay so tell me what else you got here? Well, besides the light explosive load, he used dry peas.
Dry peas He chose a shrapnel that wouldn't do too much damage outside of a limited range.
Why? What's he doing, trying to minimize his kills? It also has a picture engraved on it.
It's a robot with an arrow through it.
Anti-robotics? Doesn't the city center bus stop use smart buses? - Smart buses? - Yeah, Hi-tech buses that use time sensors on the buses and the bus stops to give out arrival and departure times? - Yeah.
Went automated last year.
- So he's anti-technology.
Maybe.
Hey, dollface, - ready to work somme magic for me? - Challenge me, you beautiful, behavioral analyst.
Domestic terrorist activity in the Seattle area.
Morgan, challenge me.
Doesn't even raise my blood pressure.
Pacific Northwest is, like, ripe with the disgruntled.
You have animal rights, zoning laws.
- Specifically anti-technology? - Ahh, yes.
My looney opposites.
Here's something! Month ago.
Tacoma, Washington.
disguised young guy went crazy on a bunch of computers at a science lab, screaming, "we will soon be the slaves and the machines will be the masters" Yikes.
That would totally suck for me.
I'm surrounded in here Come on, what are you worried about? You got me to protect you.
Now that gets my blood up.
I'm uploading the video to you now.
What else do you have, Garcia? I also found an article in the St Dennis university college newspaper.
Last spring, close to the school, an Internet cafe was attacked.
Someone created floppy disk bombs that went off in 4 of the computers.
No one was injured.
Who uses floppy disks anymore? Right, agent Brain, that was the point of the attack.
They left a note: "ultimately, you'll be as obsolete as your graveyard technology".
- Is the note signed? - "F.
F.
T.
Brigade" I'm finding references to a freedom from technology brigade, a fringe group that's showing up lately.
Anything else in the note? Yeah.
There's a not very artistic drawing of what kind of looks like a robot with an arrow through it.
I'm uploading it to you now.
You know, Seattle's the birthplace of some of the most cutting edge technology in the world.
Where it began.
I think we're ready to give a profile.
We believe the unsub resides in Seattle.
All of the attacks, most of which have just involved property damage, have taken place here, and the timing and location indicate knowledge of the area.
Even though he escalated to a lethal bombing today, we don't believe that that was necessarily his intention.
In fact, anyone not directly next to the device received minor injuries.
So we think fear may have been the larger motive.
- So he's a terrorist then.
- He is, but that's too vague of a description for our purposes.
Douglas and olshaker categorize bombers as criminal, group cause, psychologically disorganized, and personal cause bombers.
And we believe this guy to be a personal cause bomber.
And personal cause bombers are motivated by an underlying emotional conflict.
In an interview from prison, the unabomber, Ted Kaczynksi, admitted that while he was a graduate student at the university of Michigan, he started having fantasies of becoming a woman.
Even got on a list to get a sex-change operation but, during a mandatory psychological exam prior to the procedure, he changed his mind.
He told the psychologist that he made a mistake.
From that moment through the next three decades of his life, Ted Kaczynksi carried out a campaign of isolation and murder.
This unsub is male.
He lives alone.
He's possibly self-employed.
He's highly organized.
He's meticulous.
And he's very smart.
And he seems odd to those who know him.
Angry, distant, prone to sudden violent rage.
This is not the kind of guy whose neighbors will be surprised to find out what he's arrested for.
This guy's neighbors will have no trouble believing it.
Targets appear to be technology, but not the hi-tech variety.
The kind of technology we're surrounded by.
In a city the size of Seattle, we're talking Agent Gideon, you got a call on the tip line.
Okay, go ahead.
This is agent Gideon.
Why did you say no one took responsibility?! - I'm sorry.
- We called them all all the networks before anything happened.
They didn't tell anyone? Well, the networks are incompetent if you need to get your message out or you have a demand, I'm in a much better position to do that for you You have a name, sir? We're the F.
F.
T.
Brigade.
No No No I mean you specifically.
What what can I call you? This is not about individuals.
F.
F.
T.
's a major organization.
- we have hundreds of members.
- But you you have a name.
You may call me Allegro.
So, Allegro, let's meet somewhere We can talk about your message - try to help you - If the networks won't get our message out, then it is up to you.
It's your responsibility.
So call this number.
They'll put you through to me immediately.
I won't need to call again.
My message will be here when you arrive.
I'm sorry, when I arrive? What's that? Allegro? Hello? Allegro? Can you smell that? Same explosive, just more of it.
Yeah.
And same detonation device, too.
The gas station closed 15 minutes prior to the explosion.
Fortunately, the worker had already gone home.
No casualties, an escalation in the size of the explosion, and a decrease in the number of victims We need to do a grid search as soon as possible.
What do I tell them we're looking for? Said his message would be here when we arrived.
Clear! It's a book.
It says,"manifesto".
Bag it.
His manifesto's main demand is completely unrealistic: stop all automated machinery that's replaced american workers - within a week.
- And if his demands aren't met, he says he'll detonate even larger bombs So we have an anti-technology bomber who so far has attacked computers, an automated cashier, an automated gas station, - and a smart bus.
- Who calls himself Allegro.
What was that? He told me to call him allegro.
Of course.
- Yeah, it's a book.
- Yeah, it ought to be.
No, no It's an actual book, a novel I read it as a kid.
It's called "Empty Planet" by one-hit-wonder author David Hansberry.
It's got it all: technoids, minutians.
All that stuff's in there.
It's robots that take over the world once they figure out how to reproduce with humans.
Essentially, humanity's lost to technology and the hero of the book is a 12-year-old boy named Allegro who builds an army and fights for the humans.
Morgan, have Garcia get as much information as possible on the author of "Empty Planet".
David Hansberry? Hansberry, yeah.
I'm on it.
There was a passenger on the bus yesterday, a Dr.
Emory Cooke.
He's supposed to be some kind of computer genius, - pioneer in artificial life.
- Yeah, Cooke.
He developed software that mirrors the human reproductive system.
Computers that can replicate themselves.
So maybe Cooke was the target and not the smart bus.
If so, that would definitely be imitating events from the book.
Allegro and his army not only destroyed robots, but they assassinate the scientists that are responsible for creating them.
Dr.
Cooke was sitting right in front of Sylvia Cohen.
And the umbrella was initially found underneath Dr.
Cooke's seat.
Yeah.
Thank you for coming so quickly, dr.
Cooke.
People, particularly some religious fundamentalists, oppose the work you do.
Do you receive any threatening letters or phone calls from anyone about your work? Never.
Really? I've managed to put to rest certain anxieties about the godlessness of artificial life by openly sharing my own personal beliefs.
Which are? No scientific knowledge precludes the existence of God.
There are also those with very strong ethical concerns.
Ethical concerns revolve mainly around the manipulation of already-existing life forms.
My work is on creating artificial life, which presents far less ethical dilemma.
Not from the man that put the bomb on the bus yesterday.
He seems to be obsessed with the science fiction novel by David Hansberry called "Empty Planet".
Are you familiar with the book? I'm from friends with the author.
The author of the "Empty Planet" used David Hansberry as a pseudonym.
Come on, Garcia, I know you got his name, so give it up.
Her name, you cute little chauvinist, is Ursula Kent, and she's a literature professor at oh, my In seattle, st Dennis university.
Where the floppy disc bombs were set.
Oh, you are the light of my life, sweet lady.
Je suis toujours ici pour toi, mon cher.
Drives me crazy when you talk that "voulez coucher" stuff to me.
Stop it! Au revoir, crazy girl.
Ursula Kent is a brilliant woman.
She's a post-modernist literature professor.
Every semester I give a guest lecture in her class.
She she's here? In Seattle? Is that not what I just said? Sir, this guy reads "Empty Planet" like it's prophecy.
He's targeting what he considers threats to the survival of human beings, and I believe that he finds you one of these threats, Dr.
Cooke.
As I've said, I rather doubt that.
Do you think the fact that you were on that bus and you're friends with the author is a coincidence? A cognitive scientist at M.
I.
T.
once said: "Coincidences seem to be the source for some of our greatest irrationalities".
- Our minds see coincidences and - I understood him.
I'd like to attach a protective detail for you, Dr.
Cooke, until we find the guy.
No, thank you.
- Excuse me? - Really, now.
Do I seem like the sort who would want to be followed around all day by a government goon squad? I don't think so.
Goon squad? Ever talk to someone who wants to continually show you he's smarter than you? Everyday.
I really hate that.
Garcia found the author of the book.
David Hansberry's just a pen name.
- The real name is - Ursula Kent.
The professor of post-modern literature at St.
Dennis university where the floppy disc bombs were sent.
Anyway, JJ's contacting her, we can go see her any time.
Let's go.
We need to stop by a bookstore and get a copy of "Empty Planet".
I want to re-read before we talk to the author.
- I haven't read it since I was 6.
- 6? I was still ridin'by big wheel at 6 years old.
- Do you mind? It'll only take 10 minutes.
- To buy it or read it? Oh, both, actually.
Have agent Casey set up protection for Dr.
Cooke.
Like him or not, he's in danger.
He used a compression detonator.
Looks like it was under the seat.
Once he sat down, it arms.
Detonated when he released the pressure by getting up.
He wanted to make sure nothing went wrong this time.
Nobody moved the umbrella.
Hotch, Gideon just talked to this guy.
Offered him security but he refused.
We were gonna set it up anyway.
I doubt it would have helped.
What do you mean? Compression detonator.
It had to have been set when he was with us or it would have detonated when he arrived at the field office.
I'll get security to start running tapes of the lot for the last 2 hours.
Good.
Gideon.
I'm glad no one but Dr Cooke was hurt.
Dr Cooke wasn't hurt.
He was murdered.
Murder is not murder during war.
But this this isn't a war.
You're you're you're livin'a novel, You're livin'a fiction.
- Will you meet my demands? - I can't Stopping all automation at a week, you know that's impossible.
And I want my manifesto printed - in the Seattle Ledger by tonight.
- Not the New York Times, Washington Post? Somebody in Seattle important to you? There's more work to be done.
Much, much more.
In fact, I'm going to visit an old acquaintance right now.
I'd invite you, but you're all going to be very busy.
Got it.
It was the last copy left, according to the clerk, it's actually become a pretty popular novel in science fiction circles.
Hotch.
A suspicious package was found at the water works.
The report says it looks like a pipe bomb, We're on our way there now.
Ok, keep me posted.
Unsub says we're gonna be busy.
Got it.
Looks like a pipe bomb at the water works.
Are we gonna go there? No, we'll still go see professor Kent.
Seatbelts.
Hello.
Ursula Kent.
Hi.
My pleasure, professor Kent.
Jason Gideon, FBI.
This is Dr.
Reid It's a real pleasure to meet you.
I'm a fan of your work.
Well, that's very nice of you to say.
- We can speak in my office.
- Lead the way.
Your book has become a significant part of our investigation.
So your colleague explained.
I can't imagine how, though.
Bomber sees it is some kind of prophetic work.
He's attempting to save humanity by stopping the proliferation of robotic technology.
Well, that's absurd.
He's written a document-like manifesto called a guide to practical living, and several sections of it are lifted directly from "Empty Planet".
He's taken up what he believes to be your cause and he's killing people for the sake of it.
But "Empty Planet" is a fantasy.
Not to this man.
How could anyone think it's more than that? Unfortunately, it's impossible to predict how an unstable mind will interpret something.
And it's caused him to kill people? Do you know a Dr Emory Cooke? - Very well.
- He spoke to your classes? Yes Dr.
Cooke was murdered by the bomber an hour ago.
No.
Clear! It's safe now, just another small charge.
More meant to scare than to harm.
Definitely the same unsub.
Same signature.
Casey.
We'll get there ASAP.
There's another bomb at the post office.
Let's go.
Professor, what is that? this is something someone a brilliant man gave me a long time ago before he died.
Actually, it's part of the inspiration for "Empty Planet".
James was a rather early alarmist about how much we were letting technology control our lives.
It's become a sort of talisman for me.
You wear it when you teach? Sometimes, yes.
This has been etched on the bomber's devices.
Oh, my God! Bomber's written a manifesto he wants published, but not in the national newspaper.
He wants it published in the Seattle Ledger.
He wants someone here to read it.
Have you ever had a student you think might be capable of doing something like this? One of my students? Someone who hates technology? I'm a post-modernist.
In my area of study, technological inventions are often viewed as art objects.
That's true, but oftentimes the biggest critics of technology are those with scientific backgrounds, and - your students definitely fit that category.
- I need you to read this.
Tell me if the writing seems at all familiar to you.
We'll wait.
Morgan.
Gideon, this guy's pissing me off right about now This is the fourth location in the last 50 minutes.
All of them have been very small bombs.
- What kind of locations? - Municipal Water works, main post office, social security office, and now we're at the main branch of the library.
Government buildings.
- Nothing involving technology.
- No, nothing.
Then what's the purpose? Distract us, keep us movin'.
He's doing a damn good job, gideon, I don't like this at all.
We're chasing this guy, We gotta do somethin'to get ahead of him.
Professor Kent is reading the manifesto.
I hope she reads as fast as Reid.
No one reads as fast as Reid.
Is this the syllabus for your class? - Yes - Is it the same every semester? Mostly, maybe a book or project changed.
You only have two guest lecturers listed.
Yes Dr.
Cooke and Dr.
Brasier.
I always have those two, they're the only two I invite.
They speak to every new class.
Dr.
Cooke is was an expert on artificial life, - and Dr.
Brasier - Artificial intelligence.
Dr.
Brasier have an office on campus? No, it's cross town at Rolling Hills.
Morgan, I may have something.
Hey, Shelly, I'm on my way to the symposium now.
Then save me a seat.
It's not rude.
Fine, then tell them a V.
I.
P.
is coming and you'll lose your job if you don't save the seat.
How long ago did her assistant say she left? - Minutes - Good, maybe she's not in the car yet.
Yeah.
Me, Shelly.
I'm the VIP.
Yes, I am.
- I don't care what you tell them.
- Stop the car! This is long as I can see, I'm tired and I need a seat.
Stop the car, ma'am! Stop the car! Listen to me, Do not touch the ignition.
Put the car in park.
Ma'am, put the car in park, don't touch the ignition.
Don't panic.
- I'm FBI.
- FBI? - Dr.
Brasier? - Yes, I'm Dr.
Brasier.
- It's her.
- Girl, let me call you back.
Doctor, do not move.
- Excuse me? - I need you to sit as still as you can, please.
Damn.
Doctor, listen carefully.
You must sit as still as you possibly can, you understand? Why? There is a bomb under your seat.
- Be good.
- Wait.
Be of good courage and he will strengthen thine heart.
Doctor, you're gonna be just fine.
He will strengthen thine heart Every device this guy has made has been fairly basic I'm guessing this is a simple lever action compression detonator.
Kinda like a door latch.
When you use this, put it between the latch and the seat bottom to depress the latch, and I think we should be ok - Should? - Well, if there's mercury, we got problems.
Thanks, Hotch.
Yeah, I'm right here.
- So? - Bomb tech's just about ready.
- Maybe we should get over there - No, I think we would just be in the way - What about Morgan? - He hasn't changed his mind.
Morgan? I'm ordering you to step away from the car.
Hotch, you know I respect you I'm not leavin'her You should listen to your friends.
Don't do that.
Don't you turn on me, doc.
I'm right here with you.
Got it? Okay? My girl is using one of my hands - Now, Cassie.
- Yeah? You might need the other one, so come on.
Do what you gotta do, let's do this.
Step back.
Thank you.
Aside from the sections of my novel that were blatantly plagiarized, I didn't recognize anything.
It's just page after page of the ravings of a lunatic.
Right now, a young man I greatly respect and admire is putting his life on the line because of that lunatic.
I'll look through it again.
Thank you You're gonna be just fine.
Wait on the lord, I say.
That was lucky.
Yeah, this time.
Yeah, they're ok Now blow the car up.
You're blowing it up? Best way to keep Dr Brasier safe is by letting the bomber think he was successful in killing her.
Neighbors will hear an explosion, it'll be on the news.
You have a complicated life.
Complicated world.
I'm sorry I couldn't be more help.
Yeah, me, too.
Give the manifesto a little more thought.
Maybe something will occur to you without the pressure of us looming over you.
You could go back over your student list.
Think about the males.
Anything odd about them.
Guy probably had a temper.
Something you maybe haven't thought about for years.
I'll have my T.
A.
pull the files.
May I ask you something, ma'am? Of course.
Why didn't you ever write another book? I guess it was the only story I needed to tell.
I'll be working in my office most of the night, don't hesitate to call.
Thank you.
- Have a good night.
- You too.
Melissa, I need you to pull the file and thesis paper of a student from last year.
Yeah, his name is Kenneth Roberts.
Great, thanks.
So it begins with the father's suicide.
Okay we got 5 crime scenes'worth of new information to go through.
And the targets that the unsub chose for the decoy bombs do they force a change in the profile? I don't think so, I think they are what they are Decoys to throw us off the trail of Dr Brasier.
- Reid, what's that? - It's the subplot of the Empty Planet book.
- Allegro kills his mother? - Yeah, at the end, he discovers he's adopted, he's reunited with his birth mom.
He thanks her for having the strength to give him a better life, but ironically, he realizes that she herself has become a robot, so he kills her.
He sacrifices the one person in the world he has a biological connection with for the greater good.
I thought we were talking about some geeky sci-fi book here.
- That sounds like greek tragedy.
- It's not played as a tragedy at all though.
In fact, his mother's incredibly proud of this final act, like it's the ultimate fulfillment of his destiny, proof that proof that she was right to have given him up in the first place.
Wait a minute, If he kills her, how do you know she was proud? It's told from her point of view, the whole book is.
It's kind of like she's talking to the reader from heaven Mother's the narrator.
Yeah it's really her story.
Only story she needed to tell.
And in order to fulfill the story, he's gotta kill his mother.
Don't hate the book Without this, I never would have known you at all.
Mother.
Kenneth, did you do this? Did you kill Dr Cooke? You've read my manifesto.
Yes, and I thought some things seemed familiar.
And I know why you wrote "Empty Planet".
I know what you've been trying to say.
Kenneth, you've misunderstood.
I don't think so.
Kenneth, the book is a work of fiction.
- The book is a gift! - No, it isn't.
It's just a story.
Then let me tell you a story, professor! My mother died when I was eight.
And then several years ago, my father needed a blood transfusion.
And I tried to donate, only to discover that we had nothing genetically in common.
I had to watch him wither away, but before he died, he told me I was adopted.
This is not what you think.
I needed to find my mother, but the records were sealed.
All I knew was that I was adopted in Youngstown, Ohio.
And then I came across an article about professor Ursula Kent.
Favorite daughter of youngstown, famous writer of "Empty Planet", and do you know, do you know, what that article said? It it said that you had given up a baby for adoption and that baby was the inspiration for the book.
That is true.
That is true, but that is not the whole story.
When did you give up your baby for adoption? Wasn't it 26 years ago? In Youngstown, Ohio? Go, go! Kenneth, listen to me.
No! It's your turn to listen.
Come on! I came out here to take your class.
For a year, I sat right there.
Right there! And you never saw me! - How could you not recognize me? - If you'd just come to me, - I could've explained - Then I realized, the only way to get you to see me was to live out the book, But guess what? I did that and now, you see me, don't you? - This is our destiny! - Morgan, stairs, Go around.
The baby I gave up, it was a girl.
It was a daughter.
- That's a lie.
- It was a girl.
- That's a lie! - I'm so sorry.
- I know the pain you're in.
- Why do you keep - lying to me?! - You're not my son! I promise I will do everything I can to help you find your birth.
- Stop it! - Allegro! - I have a bomb! - Wait! Wait! Please wait.
Don't want to hurt anyone You've gone to great lengths not to hurt anyone unintentionally - Leave us alone! - No, we can't do that, Allegro.
We cannot leave you alone.
Okay, listen, I'm I'm I'm okay.
Doesn't have to end this way - This is how it ends! - You can change the ending.
- This is how it ends! - How does it begin? I don't even know the story, - tell me the story.
- You don't know the story! I wanna know who you are, Are you in the story, Allegro? - Start the story! - Leave us alone! Get an ambulance, get him out of here.
It's your shoulder.
He's lost, He's just lost Just relax.
It'll be all right.
Can't blame him.
Your eyes, Ursula, I wanna see your eyes.
Here they are.
There you go.
- You're listening? - I'm listening.
He just wants to know who he is.
That's all.
I understand.
Open those eyes, there you go.
Right, Keep looking at me.
It's gonna be all right.
Just relax.
- I'll be right back.
- Do not cheat.
JJ, a lot of science fiction's deeper than you might think.
- There are some genuine human emotions - Yeah, let me save you the time, Reid.
I am never going to Comicon with you.
- I - Gin.
What, you don't trust me? - Come on.
- Let's just make sure.
It's fun beating a genius.
Genius Dr Reid let you win.
I hear you were worried about me.
'Scuse me? The bomb at the garage under the car? A young man that I greatly admire and respect is putting his life on the line.
What? I do something? What you did with the bomb was stupid.
Gideon, I couldn't leave that lady out there by herself like that.
I didn't say you were wrong.
And what he said I said.
I said.
I knew that.