Go, go, go! - Clear.
- Clear.
We're cleared here.
Surveillance had them all going inside 45 minutes ago.
- Did anyone bail out on the perimeter? - No, ma'am.
All secure out here.
Boss, this isn't a meth lab.
So why an escape tunnel? Need to take a look at this.
Hotchner.
When? Did they raise the terror alert? No, that's probably best.
All right, get everybody in now.
I'll be there in a minute.
What's going on? Nothing.
I just have to go to the office.
It's 6:15, and you're talking about a terror alert? It's bad, isn't it? I don't know yet.
Please don't lie to me.
It might be.
I may not be home tonight.
I mean, - I might be home late.
- I know.
Shoot.
I forgot.
Tomorrow is the day we scheduled to take Jack - to have his pictures taken.
- Don't worry about it.
- I'll reschedule.
- No, no, no.
Go ahead and take him, and I'll do my best to be there, okay? Just come back safely.
I will.
Bye.
Everybody, meet agent Prentiss.
The other day.
I've been filling her in on protocol.
- Derek Morgan.
- Emily Prentiss.
We can make nice later.
What do we know? The DEA raided what they thought was a hardened meth lab right here, in Northern Virginia, but they found this instead.
That could be a dispersal device for a chemical weapon.
- Sophisticated.
- Homeland security's thinking Al Qaeda.
They've developed devices that span the spectrum of sophistication, some as simple as soda bottles and paint cans.
They're called al ikhteraa.
Literally "the invention".
They are.
Do we know what the biological or chemical agent is yet? No, not yet.
The cell members bailed out through a tunnel.
The DEA recovered a nextel 2-way and managed to intercept a message.
- That's not the transcript.
It's - No, it's in arabic.
Our friends surprised us and eloped.
We can no longer wait for the wedding as planned.
We can deliver our gift at the next crescent.
I lived in several middle-eastern countries - growing up.
- Next crescent? Muslims sometimes use a lunar calendar.
- I'd have to look it up - Next crescent moon is in two days.
So whatever they're attacking, it's happening in less than 48 hours.
That sounds like it, sir.
Payment for the nextel is linked to this man.
Jind Allah.
Literally "soldier of God".
That's pretty poor operational security for a sophisticated plot.
Two months ago, Jind Allah was captured leaving the U.
S.
Using a forged pakistani passport via Richmond international airport.
He's been held as a ghost detainee in Guantanamo Bay ever since.
So technically, he doesn't exist.
Soldier of God isn't a name.
No, it's most likely a name taken on for the Jihad, meaning struggle.
Extremists claim it's a holy war.
Yet the words "holy" and "war" never appear together in the Qu'ran.
- Do we know his real name? - CIA interrogators - have gotten nothing out of the guy.
- They need us to break him.
We do know from past intercepts that he's a recruiter.
He came into this country to assemble the omega cell, a sleeper cell with an unknown mission.
We have 48 hours to do what the CIA hasn't been able to manage in two months.
We could be looking at the first attack on our soil since 9/11.
- Hey.
- Car here? I told Reid 5 minutes.
I think you should take Prentiss with you to Guantanamo.
- Excuse me? - She could be of help.
I don't know enough about her abilities.
- There's plenty for her to do back here.
- I don't know what she's capable of either, but we've got to find out sooner or later.
It's an interrogation, not a training exercise.
She's the only member of the team fluent in arabic.
- There are other translators.
- Yeah, but they haven't studied behavior.
She ever have her ready bag yet? My guess is there isn't much this woman's unprepared for.
Car leaves in 4 minutes.
Yes, sir.
Dale Turner mused: "Some of the best lessons are learned from past mistakes.
The error of the past is the wisdom of the future.
" Excuse me, sir.
I just wanted to let you know how much I appreciate do not thank me.
- Sir? - It's not a favor.
- Of course.
I know that.
- You're coming to do a job.
Do you think the interrogation of Jind Allah will work in time? Interrogation's the most dynamic form of profiling.
That's not an answer.
Sir.
He's been locked away in Gitmo.
He doesn't know we raided the cell's safe house.
That's an advantage for us.
The main thing is to get him talking about anything.
Then his language and body movements will betray him.
It's like this - you focus on the way your opponent holds his piece.
How quickly and firmly he places it.
Then you watch his face and body.
It'll telegraph a player's strategy, his training, maybe his motivations.
- Is that what you need us to do? - No.
I need you to listen.
You're fluent in arabic.
I won't know the nuances like you.
Every word, every phrase.
Be on the lookout for subtext, ulterior meanings.
- What do you want me to do? - I want you to watch for tells.
Non-verbals, micro-expressions.
Watch him when he's comfortable and relaxed, then note the behavioral changes when he's under stress.
If we can establish a baseline, we'll be able to read him once I challenge his belief systems.
Before I can get him to give up where or how they'll attack, I'll first have to cause him to reveal something of himself.
- Game over.
- What are you talking about? Gitmo's runway is perpendicular to cuban airspace, so approaching aircraft have to negotiate a last minute 90 degree right turn in order to land.
They call it the Gitmo twist.
- I was winning.
- Actually, he would have had you in 3.
- Bonnie Ryan.
- Aaron Hotchner.
- DEA team.
We ran this raid.
- Derek Morgan.
This must have slowed you down some? Hell enough for them to get out through the tunnel.
They must have done escape drills.
- Hey, Morgan.
- Hey, Kenny.
Been a minute, man.
Yeah.
- We good in here? - Yeah, don't worry about it.
Everything's been rendered safe.
These guys weren't messing around.
Hotch, these tubes surround what would be the explosive charge.
And this cylinder right here? It's gotta be where they put whatever bio or chem agent they plan on dispersing.
- That's a happy thought.
- Yeah.
Tell me about it.
Looks like a 4 man cell.
They assimilated into the community.
Just like any other suburban gangster wannabes rolling at the mall.
Who do you think we're dealing with? Most likely middle-eastern males in their early twenties.
Judging by that device out there, they're looking at significant targets: Military installations, government buildings.
You must be the BAU boys.
And gal.
Pardon me.
- I'm Jason Gideon.
- Andy Bingaman, FBI.
- Agent Prentiss, Dr.
Reid.
- Hi.
I'm the intelligence supervisor here at Gitmo.
You guys having a hard time getting Jind Allah to talk? Not only can't they get him to budge, but 2 weeks ago, word got out that one of the other detainees was spilling secrets.
Jind Allah managed to have a 3 minute conversation with him in the shower line.
That night, the other detainee committed suicide.
He's reciting the Qu'ran from memory.
He's most likely a hafez.
He must have done it a dozen times since he's come to this facility.
Some muslim children are able to do it since age 12.
Two months of interrogation, that's all the CIA's been able to get out of him.
There are cuts and bruises under his right eye socket.
What kind of tactics are they using? I control the actions to the detainees, but I can assure you, my protest about their methods has been ignored.
Let the interrogation proceed normally.
I'm gonna interrupt and demand they stop harassing.
Maybe I should tell them in advance.
No, it's better if they don't expect it.
The reaction will be more visceral, more believable.
- Go ahead with phase 2 as planned.
- Copy that.
You really gonna put a show on for these guys? No, no for them.
For Jind Allah.
He's needs to see me as a complete contrast to what he's come to expect from his captors.
It's the best way to jump start him into talking.
We have less than 36 hours.
Have at it.
You two ready? - Yeah, this way.
- Thank you.
Do you understand? Every day who the hell are you? Supervisory special agent Jason Gideon.
I'm an FBI behavioral analyst.
It's time to show this man some respect.
You gotta be kidding me.
You have orders from agent Bingaman to leave so I can speak with this detainee alone.
I'm sorry for the treatment you've suffered.
If you don't mind, I'd like to spend some time with you.
He stopped his recitation.
He's sizing Gideon up.
If I don't mind? Like to get to know you as a person.
Your faith, your ideology.
To what end? Studying human behavior is what I do.
if these guys are fundamentalists, you'd think they'd have Qu'rans, - prayer mats.
- No.
We didn't find any of that here.
They must have at least one other location.
Ryan, - Hotch.
- What is it? That looks like a list of chemicals.
Let me check with Garcia.
- Go, doll.
- Hey, I'm gonna read off a list to you.
These are chemicals.
I'd like to believe, with greater understanding one day, we can come to a peaceful resolution of our differences.
Is that so? Look, I don't know what you've done or what you may have planned to do.
But unlike the other detainees here, you have the education, intelligence to convey the nuances of your culture.
That's what interests me.
Until, I don't give you what you want.
Then you will resort to other tactics.
I swore an oath to uphold the United States constitution, no matter where I am, no matter who I deal with.
You're sure? All right.
- What'd she say? - Garcia says this looks like a list of additives needed to weaponize anthrax.
Could they get enough anthrax? The letter sent to senator Tom Daschle's office in 2002 only contained two grams of purified spores, enough to kill 25 million people if effectively distributed.
Are you willing to have a chat with me? Go ahead.
Gideon.
Let's chat.
He's from Egypt.
Cairo.
- You sure? - No, he could be yemeni, but odds are he's egyptian.
What type of name is Gideon? American.
I often forget that in your culture, you put your country first and your god last.
Sir, he was born and raised in egypt.
They pronounce "J" sounds as a "G".
You don't consider yourself egyptian as well as muslim? Egyptian.
In two minutes, you know more about me than those thugs found out in two months.
They and I have very, very different motives and methodologies.
And yet your country relies on them to protect you from us.
Sometimes they're their own worst enemy.
Yeah.
Who is your worst enemy, agent Gideon? It's not a who.
It's a what.
Ignorance.
You're a very honest man.
And you? Must have become a hafez by what, - age 10? - 9.
Any person with the discipline and dedication to memorize the entire Qu'ran by age 9 must have a very serious reason to choose a life of violence.
Perhaps.
We are through already? No, not at all.
The sun is about to set.
Mecca's in that direction.
I'll have a prayer rug and water bowl sent in.
What the heck is going on here? The NSA is routing all messages to us for language analysis.
You know, rumor has it, much to my chagrin, that during national security emergencies, our fair country turns all of its satellites homeward and records all electronic traffic in the whole U.
S.
A.
Is this even legal? Yeah, I don't really want to think about that right now.
Somewhere in this slew of chatter could be a shred of something that could save a whole lot of lives.
All right, well, cross reference gift with wedding allusions.
They'll be consistent with their code.
Here's something.
It rained all over the wedding, but the gift is waiting in the barn.
- When was that call made? - Looks like just over two hours ago.
Let's run the words "barn and "wedding" through.
The wedding will now be held at Vincent's barn off Link and Annandale.
- Wrap the gift for delivery.
- That's not a gift I wanna get.
I'll call Hotch.
Yeah, JJ.
We think we just found the cell's backup location.
It looks like a construction site in Annandale, Virginia.
Sounds like they may have another device ready to arm.
I'll get agent ryan to organize another raid.
And notify Gideon and Reid.
Okay.
Can I offer you some water? I offer you some first.
They only kept it there to show me what I could not have.
I'd like you to explain something to me.
How can you ignore the fact that Muhammad preached passivity while he was in Mecca? "Do no violence".
His later message from medina was perfectly clear.
"When violence come upon you, you must fight back with violence.
He's quoting from the Hadith, not from the Qu'ran.
It's called the verse of the sword.
They argue that it cancels out earlier teachings.
Verse of the sword.
Just someone's spin on the words of the prophet.
It's not even part of the Qu'ran.
But it does say in the Qu'ran fight and slay the infidels wherever you find them and seize them in every stratagem of war.
Unless they repent.
Establish regular prayers and practice regular charity.
Is it your intention, Mr.
Gideon, to become a man of faith and revert to islam? I am a man of faith.
I have repented, I pray regularly, and I practice charity.
I have never committed violence against you, so how is it that my faith would allow you to live and worship as you please, and yours would take my life and snuff it out? You are simply misguided people of the book.
- But if you revert to islam - A billion muslims.
one billion muslims manage to practice their faith in peace for Allah is surely merciful.
You inquired about my childhood earlier.
I will tell you that it was a happy one until one day a bomb fell out of the sky and leveled the bazaar that I was in with my family.
I was only 8.
Must have been horrifying for such a young boy.
He's opening up about himself.
Maybe.
We need to verify what he's saying, though.
Speak.
Garcia, I need you to check something for me.
I'm looking for a stray bombing in a bazaar somewhere in Egypt approximately 30 years ago.
Okay, great.
That's not too obscure.
I don't need you to give me details.
We're just trying to set a baseline for Jind Allah's truthfulness.
- I need to know if it happened at all.
- When I know, you'll know.
- Thank you.
- When the rubble was cleared half of my family was dead.
It was on that day that I swore my life to vengeance for Allah.
And for that very reason, those holding you here can never let you leave.
Your only hope is to tell me so I can hopefully one day share your struggle with the world.
Your government won't even admit that I exist.
How possibly can you tell my side of the story? Hey, guys, we want silence tonight.
No coms.
Let's be careful.
We don't know what to expect.
- Ready? - Ready.
Let's do it.
Clear! This place is completely empty.
We missed them again.
You got Gideon, Prentiss, and me.
It's Hotch.
We're at cell location number 2.
No cell members, no lab, no dispersal devices.
We're still looking for escape tunnels.
Call us.
We're running out of time.
The attack's supposed to take place in less than 24 hours.
So getting Jind Allah to talk is our only chance of finding them.
- Time I confronted him with the truth.
- What are you going to do? Show him my hand.
I'm going to give you the respect of telling you what just happened.
A team of agents raided an omega cell location.
Actually, both of them.
Our men are in place in Annandale as we speak.
You gain nothing by remaining silent.
Jihad is forever.
Something's wrong.
His hands.
Gideon, something's wrong.
This guy seemed relieved by what you just told him.
Excuse me.
- What's the problem? - Get everybody out of there.
- Now! Now! Now! - Everybody out.
It's a trap.
Now! I said out! Go! How did a terror cell get its hands on anthrax without a single lab reporting a security breach? Would we know if a foreign lab had a breach? A foreign lab? Actually, no.
Garcia, isn't Annandale where Morgan and Hotch are? That's not a gas main explosion.
Please pick up.
Please pick up.
Please pick up.
Yeah, it's Morgan.
Hello? Garcia, can you hear me? We saw the explosion on TV.
Yeah, I know.
We lost a S.
W.
A.
T.
agent.
Oh, God.
Don't worry.
Don't think you're gonna get rid of me that easy.
Do you need anything? I know who to call if I do.
Thanks, baby doll.
They're all right? Yeah.
We lost a S.
W.
A.
T.
agent.
Son of a bitch.
Sorry about Kenny.
Yeah, me, too.
The chatter was a set-up.
They knew we'd be listening.
They led us straight here.
Just tell me you know where to look next.
Not yet.
They're okay? We were right about the trap.
It was rigged to explode.
A S.
W.
A.
T.
agent was killed.
- Was anthrax involved? - No.
Then that's not the final target.
You look troubled, my friend.
You killed one of my men.
I was here with you.
The second location was a trap.
One of my agents was killed in the explosion.
This is war.
We expect casualties.
Shouldn't you? - He was a good man.
- Well if he would convert, there would be no reason for him to fear death.
What do you say to his family? I say: Where were you to mourn when my son was murdered? - His son? - Did you see that? When he told the story about his childhood, the bomb landing in the bazaar, his behavior changed.
We know he was lying.
Garcia couldn't find any record of a bombing during the time Jind Allah was a boy.
Exactly, but this time when he mentioned his son, he looked at his hands, like he had to concentrate to control his anger.
That first story wasn't about him.
It was about his son.
Which means it must have been more recent.
Garcia.
I need you to look for a bombing again in Egypt, but this time anything in the last ten years.
On it.
We're looking for civilian casualties, an 8-year-old boy.
Okay.
I'm cross referencing bombings and child victims.
Seven years ago, in the heart of Cairo, egyptian government blamed Hezbollah, but conspiracy theories on the street claimed it was a joint U.
S-Israli strike that went astray.
Your ghost detainee's name is Jamal Abaza.
How about his son's name? Do you have that? Amir Abaza.
8.
Killed in the blast.
All right.
Find out everything you can on that.
I'll get back to you soon.
We know his real identity.
It appears that there will be no peaceful resolution to our difficulties after all.
I haven't given up that hope.
It's time for your Salut-ul-Isha prayers.
May we speak again tomorrow? You are asking me? Yes.
Tomorrow, then.
Jamal Abaza's been in the U.
S.
for a while.
He volunteered as the prison imam at the Dearfield correctional center - three years ago.
- How could the CIA not know that? They're focused overseas.
We're domestic.
Yeah.
They probably sent a request for a domestic information search, and it's somewhere making its way through channels.
If he was a prison imam, he must have recruited militant islamic society members.
M.
I.
S.
Is an atypical prison organization.
They pick up an amalgam of ethnicities.
The Qu'ran says that my lord this fool knows that slip through the cracks, the ones that traditional groups won't accept.
Outside these walls, you need to understand It's made up largely of american citizens.
American citizens with a reason for hating the government.
We're looking at home grown terrorists.
- What the hell do you want? - The name jamal abaza.
Does it mean anything to you? Abaza was an imam in Cairo.
He preached Jihad to his followers, but he fell off the grid seven years ago.
That's because when his son died, he took the Jihad name: Jind Allah.
He came to America to recruit sleeper cells.
You're telling us that that detainee in there is Jamal Abaza? Amazing what you learn when you talk to people.
He was also a prison imam in Virginia three years ago.
Are you familiar with the militant islamic society? They're home grown? We know the cell that abaza put together has access to anthrax, but we can't find any reports of any going missing in the States.
We have protocols that we have to follow.
You really going to allow a terrorist attack on U.
S.
soil because of protocols? I told you what I learned in there because you and I, FBI, CIA, right now we have the ability to break through all the protocol and share information.
Let me see what we have.
Coordinate with agent Jareau and Penelope Garcia at Quantico.
Please.
- Think it'll work? - I don't know.
CIA's tough.
They play it pretty close to the vest.
Well, if we don't all work together, more people are gonna die.
A lot more.
- How goes with the CIA? - I don't know what Gideon said to them, but they are feeding me information like crazy.
- They sure do generate intelligence.
- Yeah.
Hopefully not too much to interpret.
Slept well? For the first time since I've been here.
Good.
Until yesterday, I was not permitted regular prayer.
We receive comfort from our prayers.
- We? - Human beings.
I say something wrong? You placed us on the same level.
- Aren't we? - Well, here I am thought of as less than human.
And in your Jihad, I am.
Gideon what do you really want from me? I already told you.
I want to understand you.
And if that is not possible? Then that would be my loss.
It's almost time for your midday prayers.
May I return later? - I look forward to it.
- Thank you.
Most of these tips are so new they haven't even been authenticated yet.
Yeah, but there's nothing in the established information that's remotely helpful.
Wait a minute.
Anthrax.
- What? - Genimmune.
A dutch biotech firm reported that they may have had a security breach - involving anthrax last week.
- May have? They're still doing a security and inventory sweep, but they may be missing up to Could potentially kill a quarter billion people.
He seems much calmer than he was yesterday.
May make any reading of his body language less accurate.
I know.
- Is that what we want? - I hope so.
Well, isn't that the exact opposite of He hopes so? We have less than ten hours before the new crescent moon rises.
Nine.
Aren't you worried? I've been with him long enough to trust him.
CIA is funneling you their dutch terror watch list.
Ok, I can cross reference that with any port of entry information we have as well as customs and immigration enforcement.
You know, it would sure be a lot easier if there was a centralization of all this information.
Oh, dream on, JJ.
No one wants the other kids peeing in their sand box.
Tariq Muhammad.
Dutch citizen, islamic convert.
Traveled here 4 days ago under his original name.
Andre Janssen.
And we have the address he listed on his customs form.
Thank you.
- We just got a lead.
- Got a name? And an address.
How does a terrorist cell exists right here in Mayberry? Infrared scanning still shows no one inside.
We're doing a soft entry in case it's booby trapped.
Sir, get in here! We have 5 deceased males and what looks to be a crude lab, all shot in the head execution style.
- Any anthrax on the scene? - Only residue.
There's also packing and tags from 4 new backpacks.
- All right, listen up.
- Backpacks? They're already on the move.
We're too late.
Have you finished? As you said, the sun is set.
Yes.
I'd like you to meet a colleague of mine.
Dr.
Reid.
- May we speak? - Of course.
I have a little time.
That was a joke.
I have all the time.
Please.
A joke.
- Well, we're making progress.
- Yes, progress.
That is true.
Is there no way for this thing to end? This Jihad? The Jihad will end when Allah wills its end.
Then how will you know that it is Allah's will? When the Jihad ends.
I have been lying to you.
Of course you have.
My colleague has been outside watching us as we talked on monitors.
Watching your body language, trying to figure you out.
Were you successful? Somewhat.
Your name is Jamal Abaza.
Your son Amir was killed in 2003 in the bombing at the Mahfouz bazaar in Cairo.
Since then, you've been recruiting M.
I.
S.
members in prison by convincing them that U.
S.
Economic policies are exploiting third world nations and turned them into extreme fundamentalists by promising a better existence with Allah.
I would say that you were more than somewhat successful.
But I did not learn where your M.
I.
S.
cell was going to make an anthrax attack in the U.
S.
At the new crescent tonight.
I have no knowledge of such a thing.
Yes, you do, Mr.
Abaza.
And there is still time.
What? Are you sure? Something has happened? How could you? You choose to contort islam into an excuse for a life of violence.
You have perverted your faith - to justify murder.
- Now we are finally chatting, Gideon.
You accuse americans of being puppeteers of the third world, yet you used your own people's faith tonight to make them dance for you.
Why? Why is it always those who profess to be the most fervent believers in this war? They always manipulate other people to die for them.
Does your president go into battle? Or does he send your children? Tonight all those innocent people.
There is no such thing, Gideon.
They were infidels.
And they were engaged in activities that spread american policies over the entire world.
Your incessant need to own things, material things.
Your capitalism rests on the back of third world countries.
No one's hands are clean.
No one is innocent.
Those people tonight, they were innocent.
They never hurt you.
They hurt me by existing.
Yes, the infidels shall fall at the hands of the righteous.
And that is when the Jihad will end.
So you are ready to murder America has learned nothing from the past.
You harden targets like your power plants, but you leave the soft root for our taking.
What has happened tonight will affect your economy for years, the way september 11th affected air travel.
And maybe the next time a giant shopping center opens, people will think twice before going.
And maybe next it will be a school.
Hey! You can shut the video feed down now, Garcia, thanks.
Has the sun not set yet? No.
No A shopping center.
A mall.
It's a grand opening tonight not long after sunset.
That gives you about an hour.
God help us if they don't make it.
- Let's hope we have somewhere to go.
- Grand opening of the USA mall today.
It's the third largest in the country, and it's right smack in the middle of McLean, Virginia.
Let's move.
What's going on with you? You look like you've seen a ghost back there.
Haley's supposed to take Jack to the new mall to have his portrait taken.
- Well, go ahead and call her.
- It's a breach of security.
You'll lose Haley and Jack, screw this job.
You won't have a life.
I can't reach her.
Morgan, I'm going to find the security office.
- Morgan! - Right here.
- Looks like loading dock security.
- Should we evacuate? No, no.
We'd have mass panic.
Let's go.
Hello? - FBI.
- FBI? - Are these all your security cameras? - Yes, sir.
- What's this camera here? - That's the roof.
East end.
Morgan, I've got 4 guys on the east end of the roof.
- What's on that side of the roof? Nothing.
No access doors to the mall? Not unless you go through the air vents.
Morgan,it's the air vents.
They're going for the air vents.
Don't move! Put the devices down and put your hands where I can see them! Gun! Police tonight foiled an apparent robbery attempt at the new usa mall, which presumably have marred an otherwise successful grand opening.
Haley? Hey,in here.
You're home.
Did you see that there was an attempted robbery at the new mall? I'm glad I cancelled jack's photos.
I just decided I wanted you to be there.
It's better if we do it as a family.
Is everything ok? Yeah,everything's perfect.
Ralph waldo emerson once said in order to learn the most important lessons of life, one must each day surmount a fear.
When did you know you were gonna have to trick him? The first time I talked to him.
You realized you couldn't break him? Well,I realized he was too smart to have had that nextel phone registered to him accidentally.
He drew us there.
He wanted our presence at gitmo to confirm that he was successful.
And that's when you started moving up the time of his prayers.
If I'd used an actual clock, he might have caught on.
So it was all a chess game.
We won this round but you heard him.
Jihad never ends.
Mate.
I quit.
Yield.
Surrender.
Capitulate.
I'm gonna take a nap.
Prentiss.
Sir? You play?