Okay.
It is not just me, right? - Our girl's got an arm.
- Yeah.
Oh.
Just like her dad.
Look at her.
We blinked and four years went by.
So, what do you think? Should we do this again? Sounds like a plan.
Who's coming? What do you think, Katie? You want a little brother or sister? Yeah? Well the boss has spoken.
Okay.
Well, you go get her, - and I'll go get lunch.
- Okay.
My daughter Molly.
She's 6.
She's got braids, yellow sweatshirt.
- What am I gonna do? - Okay, okay.
Calm down.
Braids, yellow sweatshirt.
We were playing hide and seek up here.
She must have gotten lost in the trees.
Oh, God.
I'm so stupid.
Tom! Tom! Shh, shh, shh! Wait.
Did you hear that? It came from over here.
Molly? Honey? Daddy's here.
Molly.
No.
Did you find Molly? Is she okay? Mom, wake up.
It's past 10:00.
Damn it.
Why did you let me sleep? Why don't you get an alarm clock? - Did you eat? - Pizza.
- And the baby? - Pizza.
And milk.
Get some sleep, Jay.
Hey, I'll bring you some pancakes.
Yeah.
When? Hey.
Want company? Hi.
Come in.
- Hi.
- Hi.
- Agent Hotchner? - Yes.
I'm agent Emily Prentiss.
How do you do? Oh, you're ambassador Prentiss'daughter.
I did security clearances for your mother's staff.
It was one of my first commands.
I believe you were off to Brown at the time.
- Actually, it was Yale.
- Ah.
I've been in the bureau almost 10 years now.
Don't tell me that.
Has it been that long? Apparently, sir.
But I work mostly in the midwest.
- St.
Louis, Chicago.
- Good.
- Your parents well? - Yeah, yeah, they're great.
Excellent.
What can I do for you? Well, I guess I was hoping you could tell me where to put my stuff.
I'm sorry? I'm supposed to start here today at the BAU.
There's been a mistake.
- I don't think so, sir.
- There's definitely been a mistake.
Excuse me.
We're getting started.
Thank you.
I'll be right there.
I didn't approve this transfer, agent Prentiss.
I'm sorry for the confusion, but you've been misinformed.
Excuse me.
It's very good to see you again.
Did you approve any transfer? N o.
I would've discussed it.
That's what I thought.
She's got the paperwork to join the team.
- You want me to make a call? - No, I'll look into it.
St.
Louis is in trouble.
They've got two serial killers.
This killer abducts his victims from public places, dumps them in the woods.
They consulted us months ago after the third murder.
Well, now it might be up to 6.
Ellen Carroll's been missing since yesterday.
The first two victims were found near Mill Creek, - in Mark Twain national forest.
- No wonder it takes days to find the bodies.
The forest is 1.
5 million acres and 78,000 of that is wilderness.
What's the story with these women? Eight victims.
All prostitutes.
Latest is Marci Mitchell.
She was killed last night with a.
44 magnum.
All are tied to a serial shooter claiming responsibility.
He's contacted Jim Meyers, a reporter at the Missouri Herald.
So he's not getting the attention he thinks he deserves.
He signs it the Hollow Man, names himself for the press.
Why Hollow Man? What, he feels empty inside or something? He uses hollow point bullets.
No one even knew this guy existed until he sent this letter.
Well, he's killed more victims, but look who he's chosen.
Hundreds of victims go unnoticed because they're social outcasts When Mill Creek kills, the Hollow Man shoots another prostitute.
So one doesn't want to be outdone by the other.
Sounds like sibling rivalry to me.
They've been killing independently of each other for a year now.
With each kill they're learning something from the other.
"No Woman is Safe" Elbert Hubbert once wrote: "If men could only know each other, they would neither idolize nor hate.
" Thank you.
- What's wrong? - Did you know there are roughly the U.
S.
at any given time? It's an incredibly rare occurrence to have them operating in the same city.
- How many times has that happened? - To my knowledge, three times.
There was a guy killing at the same time as the Son of Sam.
And then again in New Orleans, and most recently with the Phoenix murders.
Serial shooters are typically loners.
This guy likes to kill at night.
His victims are prostitutes, so he may lack confidence with women or have poor social skills.
There's no rape.
The guy could be impotent.
He's a wannabe tough guy.
It's not hard to be tough holding a.
44.
The gun gives him power and lets him maintain distance from the kill.
This guy doesn't want to touch the bodies with his hands.
Mill Creek killer.
Hunts during the day, targets educated, middle-class women.
He'd have to look and act like they do.
The women died from blunt force head traumas.
This guy wants to be close, he wants to feel the life leave their bodies.
- These guys are polar opposites.
- Just like their victims.
They live in the same city but they're worlds apart.
I'm gonna see if the shooter's victims have any families I can talk to.
That's a good idea.
I'm already familiar with the Mill Creek case.
Reid, can you take a look at the letter for handwriting analysis and psycho linguistics? - Of course.
- Looks like I'm with you.
I'll go have a talk with Ellen Carroll's husband.
I'm meeting Jim Meyers, the reporter from the Missouri Herald.
Tell him not to write about the Hollow Man.
If we want to draw the shooter out, best way to do that is to act like he doesn't exist.
I'll feel much better when you find Ellen.
Mr.
Carroll, believe me, we are trying.
You know, when you have kids, you become so fixated on where they are and what they're doing, you don't think you need to worry about your spouse.
I understand your wife is a partner at a law firm.
Now aside from work, taking care of the family, does she make time for herself? She's an avid runner, participates in the St.
Louis marathon every year.
Is she shy, nervous about meeting new people? Ever since we had Katie, I'd say she's much more trusting.
You don't remember her talking to anyone you don't know at that playground? No.
No one.
How did I not see someone take my wife? Mr.
Carroll, the man who did this, somehow he just fits right in.
He doesn't look or sound like he doesn't belong.
Oh, hey, little lady.
She keeps asking me when her mommy's coming home.
I don't know what to say.
I missed you.
You are so beautiful.
Agents Hotchner and Reid, FBI.
- What do you want? - We'd like to talk to you.
Hold that badge up again.
We're here to talk to you about Marcie Mitchell.
I'm her mother.
I'm sorry for your loss, ma'am.
- What's this? - They're for me.
Take your brother inside.
- Is this about mom? - I said inside.
You gonna judge me or ask questions? Is there anyone who can help you with the kids? Is that what you came here for? Ma'am, we've just been assigned your daughter's case.
We're in the process of gathering information, but so far no witnesses have come forward.
Well, around here guns go off like those damn car alarms, every 15 minutes.
Nobody's stupid enough to talk, nobody cares.
We do.
You wouldn't even be here if it wasn't for them.
"Heinous crimes against upstanding members of the community.
" Nobody writes about prostitutes being shot because they won't admit they think they're cleaning up the place.
You're right.
Cases like your daughter's usually go unsolved.
The problem is people aren't looking for them because they don't know that they're missing.
Part of her job was to stay below the radar.
Doesn't mean she was any less important.
She made bad choices.
But she was a good person.
She loved those boys.
Whoever shot her should pay for what they did.
So don't come in here and say you're sorry.
Just do something about it.
We will, Ma'am.
Hi.
You must be agent Sheridan? - Agent jareau.
- Hi.
- Really appreciate you coming so quickly.
- Yeah.
Why don't you set up in here? Oh, wow.
You've got lots of evidence for the Mill Creek killer case.
What about the Hollow Man? Right here.
There's been at least eight women shot.
This is all we've got? You know these cases don't generate much evidence.
All we have at the scene are a couple of bullets and no one's talking.
- Well, hopefully, we can change that.
- Agent jareau, there's a reporter here to see you.
- Thank you.
Excuse me.
- Sure.
Jim Meyers.
Hi.
Agent Jareau.
We spoke on the phone.
Thanks for stopping by.
Sure.
Here's that letter I faxed to you.
Oh, great.
So, did the Hollow Man shoot those prostitutes because I wrote about the Mill Creek victims? He would've killed them anyway.
But right now he's looking for recognition.
That's why he's contacted you.
But I'm not in any danger.
I don't want to be staring down the barrel of a gun.
Right now he needs you.
You're his only hope to get on that front page.
I had no idea I could get on a serial killer's radar by writing about another one.
We're gonna to ask that you not print anything relating to the Hollow Man or the women he's killed.
Don't those victims deserve just as much ink as those other women? Of course they do.
But we need the shooter to keep communicating with you.
And if you satisfy his need for attention, he could disappear, and I'm sorry.
We just can't take that chance.
Excuse me, agent Jareau? We just found Ellen Carroll's body.
Agents Gideon, Morgan, this is agent Sheridan.
How are you? Forgive the gloves.
How far is the abduction site from these woods? About 40 miles or so.
- He tried to hide it pretty well.
- He covers the body very carefully.
Must feel remorse for killing them.
This lipstick's been applied recently.
It's still moist.
Look at her hair.
It's been brushed, put behind her ears.
She was abducted, what, an hour from here? Dragged through these woods? Her hair would not look like that.
So he keeps her safe from the elements and then comes back to the body.
That's why he chooses a secondary location that's so remote.
- This isn't about remorse.
- No.
He wants to be alone with her.
Needs his privacy.
You never noticed the hair or the makeup before? No.
Maybe it was the timing.
She was found within 24 hours, and the others had already succumbed to the elements.
Sex acts with dead bodies are rare occurrences.
However, Bundy did it regularly.
So how is this going to help us to catch him? Now we know he has a ritual.
He needs to defile the bodies.
Next time we'll be here waiting for him.
"Sixth Victim Falls to Mill Creek Killer" We're off-duty just like you.
Two victims at once.
That's a first for him.
You think he went out looking to kill more than one woman or is it just happenstance? He chose a different hunting ground.
Yes, we're in an alley, but we're behind an expensive hotel in a nice neighborhood.
You get a different class of prostitute, ones that don't walk the street alone.
- He was looking for a challenge.
- Question is, what gave him the confidence to stray out of his comfort zone? - Make sure to run that for prints.
- He displayed the newspaper between them.
He took the time when he could've just tossed it aside.
It's deliberate.
He wants us to know he's angry.
Angry enough to change his M.
O.
I heard there was a double homicide this morning.
Was it Hollow Man? - Agents are confirming that now.
- If I'd written about him.
There's no guarantee that he would've stopped killing if you would've given into his demands.
In fact, media attention could've fueled him to kill more.
We don't know that for sure.
This is all just a guessing game, isn't it? No.
It's behavioral analysis.
We're dealing with an offender who believes that murdering people is a good way to become famous.
All I know is you told me to ignore him and he takes 2 lives.
If I dismiss this double homicide, what happens tomorrow? We won't know until then.
Too bad we couldn't trace any prints from the newspaper.
What have you got? he only sent this to an individual, which shows he's not confident enough to initiate contact with the masses.
Emotional indicators are analyzed through slants.
The shooter maintains vertical, narrow-lettered writing, both signs of repression.
And the pressure, if you look closely, is excessively heavy, which shows that he's uptight and can easily overreact.
You got all that from his handwriting? Graphology is an effective and reliable indicator of personality and behavior.
- My writing's always different.
- That's because it symbolizes your emotions at that given time, just like your facial expressions parallel the way you're feeling while you're speaking.
I'm surprised this guy writes in cursive.
His message is so clear.
I would've thought he'd print everything.
Actually, his connected writing shows that he deals with problems in a practical and direct manner.
- Like shooting someone.
- Exactly.
The Hollow Man uses simple statements, all first person.
For example: "I won't be ignored.
" He's obviously tired of feeling this way.
It's quite possible he has a job in solitude or one that he feels strips him of his identity.
His job might require him to wear a uniform, something that shows absolutely no individuality.
Or he may be overqualified for his menial job and feels that he doesn't get the respect that he necessarily deserves.
But today he's killed two women, which tells us he's growing confident.
This makes him unpredictable and dangerous.
And because he has no physical contact with his victims, it's going to make him that much harder to catch.
We have more information on the Mill Creek killer because he spends a lot of time with his victims before and after his kills.
Because his victims willingly follow him in broad daylight, he appears harmless.
He's most likely handsome.
- Handsome? - Yes.
These women wouldn't follow an unattractive man.
They just wouldn't.
He's handsome, and he's got the socials kills to trick his victims.
Those who know him well, they'd be shocked to learn that he's the man that we're after.
He's been able to get his victims away from family, friends.
Obviously, this makes him feel powerful.
If this guy is so smart, why would he risk driving his victims from the abduction site to the woods? Because of the ritual.
It's become the most important thing to him.
Dominates his thoughts.
Woods provide the privacy he needs.
The Hollow Man is motivated by external pressures.
This is a guy who simply wants attention.
The Mill Creek killer, on the other hand, he's driven by internal forces.
He's a sexually motivated offender.
This makes him a lot more predictable but don't think for a second it makes him any easier to catch.
Where are you? Excuse me.
Meredith Dale.
25.
She was supposed to meet her friend for a bike ride but disappeared.
- Disappeared when? - An hour ago.
- How can we be sure it's him? - Well, look at her.
She's his type physically, she vanishes into thin air.
It's got the Mill Creek's M.
O.
all over it.
I'll set up road blocks in and out of the forest.
Well, based on the other timelines, we have to assume he's hiding her body right now.
Best chance of catching him is find Meredith Dale's body and sit tight.
We know he'll be back.
I'm going to need you to step out of your vehicle.
- What's going on here, officer? - Just routine check.
Can you open your back? Yeah, sure.
Many people come through here today? - What are you doing up here? - Went for a hike.
No water, no supplies? My boots are all I need.
That it? - That's it.
- Okay.
What if these dump sites aren't random? The bodies were scattered all over.
Look at this.
- There's no pattern.
- No, I see that, but we're talking about a lot of area to cover here.
He had to have some kind of plan going into these woods.
Must have done his homework.
Okay.
The first body was found deep into the woods.
That's a three-hour car ride from the city.
The first time, he's more careful in disposing of her.
Her body was discovered by a forest ranger five days after the abduction.
And all the other victims, look at this, they follow the same pattern.
What are you saying? You think he works up there? He might.
All I do know for sure is that he has to be familiar enough with these woods to know when a ranger is on duty.
He knew precisely when and where to drop the bodies.
Now that is an awesome place to dump a person.
- Come on, Garcia.
- What? I'm just saying, angel fish.
A million acres converts into over 2,300 square miles to cover.
- Evil knew what he was doing.
- Yeah? Well, now so do we.
Talk to me.
How's the ranger schedule break down? Okay.
The national forest is divided into 6 ranger districts, which are patrolled every 3 to 5 days.
Now, the Potosi-Fredricktown area must be where he's headed to next because the rangers were just there yesterday, which means they're not scheduled to revisit it for at least another 3 days.
And look at that, it's the district closest to the city.
Well, that makes sense.
He's in a hurry.
He wants to get in and out of there without a lot of trouble.
Which area has the easiest access to the main road? That would be Saltgrass Cove.
Saltgrass Cove.
Yep.
He'd have plenty of time to revisit her.
What? Forget.
No, no.
I don't want to know that.
Bye-bye.
Think I know where he took Meredith Dale.
Brownie, come here.
Damn it.
Please, please.
Everything needs to look the same as when he left it.
He'll come back.
He needs to see Meredith again.
This bastard has killed seven women on my watch.
- Comb the scene! - No, no.
Please, please! Stop! Let's clear the immediate area.
Post yourselves along the perimeter.
It's imperative that you become invisible.
He set his own trap.
What we need to do now is stake out in the woods and hunt him, just like he does his victims.
That's got to be him.
FBI! Stay down! Hands where I can see them.
Okay, okay.
Just take it easy.
Jim Meyers.
What the hell? - You're the Mill Creek killer? - What? No.
Then how the hell did you get here? I got another letter from the Hollow Man.
Telling you exactly where to find Meredith Dale? I swear.
You can read it.
"Follow the cottonwood trail through Saltgrass Cove.
" Wait a minute.
We just figured this out ourselves.
How can another killer know the specifics about someone else's dumpsite? - What's going on? - It's going to be all over the news.
Look like the Hollow Man didn't give you the exclusive this time.
So our plan to catch the Mill Creek killer was ruined by the Hollow Man? And now the Hollow Man's on a high.
He hasn't pulled the trigger since he took two victims yesterday.
Is he satisfied or is he just getting started? We'll find out.
"Hollow Man helps FBI find the Mill Creek killer's victim.
" Nice.
He's alerted the media and injected himself into the investigation.
He's getting the attention he's been craving.
But if the shooter really wants to get the other guy arrested, he would've called us and not the media.
He must know the Mill Creek killer needs to revisit the body.
If he can't defile the woman again, it'll become so strong, it could push him into a frenzy.
And if that happens, this guy is just a time bomb waiting to explode.
Excuse me.
Hi.
Look, I'm having a day.
My car won't start and I forgot my phone.
Could I use yours to make a call? Yeah.
Okay.
I know it's here.
I just used it.
What, you know what? Forget the phone.
Maybe it'll start for you.
Walk with me.
It's right around the corner.
No, that's ok.
- No, come on.
- No.
No! - Walk with me.
- Let go off me! Let me go! Help! Help! Somebody! Somebody! Help, please! Somebody! Please! - At first he seemed so normal.
- Was he handsome? - Excuse me? - Was he handsome? Yeah.
He was.
Actually, that's why I stopped.
When did his demeanor change? After I refused to go to his car.
He grabbed my arm so hard I thought that it would break.
I've been watching the news about all these women being abducted, and I just started screaming.
You trusted your instincts.
Because of that, you're still alive.
Miss, there's a sketch artist here with us.
He can create a pretty accurate rendition from your description of this man.
- Would you sit with him? - Absolutely.
Officer.
- I'm glad you're all right.
- Thank you.
He's becoming irrational and violent in public.
That's exactly what the Hollow Man wanted him to do.
Well, if he doesn't find a victim soon, he'll become more dangerous.
How's that possible? He'll drop the ruse entirely and just start grabbing women at random.
Great.
Thanks, Morgan.
The witness got a good look at the Mill Creek killer.
You know, if it's the Hollow Man's intention to force him into a frenzy, he's getting what he wants.
He knew exactly where to find meredith dale's body.
He figured out the route to the dump site the same way we did.
They always say serial killers make the best profilers.
Yeah, but this guy's dead-on.
Yeah.
The headline doesn't mention the shooter at all.
We talked to Jim Meyers, the reporter, asked him not to respond to the letter, he doesn't, and then the guy goes out and shoots two more women.
- In a better part of town.
- What gives him this confidence? And what's the significance of the paper at the scene? We know he wants to be newsworthy.
He could've just tossed it aside.
Instead, he displayed it.
There's something he wants us to look at.
There's definitely something in the paper.
I figured it out.
What is it? They're talking in the classifieds.
Classifieds, code names.
This feels like an old spy movie.
It's low-tech, simple, but very effective.
They've been doing this for months, and nobody ever knew it.
This is the first one that I found.
The references are what made me suspicious.
"Sunny, are you an artist too? I'd love to see your work sometime.
Holden.
" Sunny? Holden? They're characters from Catcher in the Rye.
Widely accepted as a loved book of sociopaths.
Mark David Chapman quoted it after killing John Lennon.
Deranged minds identify with Holden's alienation and detachment.
I found the initial contact.
It ran in the paper unchanged for months.
"We have different tastes, but I can appreciate your art.
Sunny.
" Sunny's the Hollow Man.
He initiated contact.
- What's he getting out of it? - A mentor.
Offered admiration and respect.
In return, he gains encouragement and confidence.
But when the Hollow Man remained unnoticed by the press, he resented his mentor - and turned it into a rivalry.
- Hollow man became jealous.
They were both killers, but they weren't seen in the same playing field.
What else did you find? "An overwhelming area and you never get lost?" Then the answer to this question.
"I do my research.
It's not so random when you know the area.
I like cotton wood in SGC.
" SGC? He's talking about Saltgrass Cove.
He told him how to find Meredith Dale.
Why? Teaching his student a lesson.
We understand their relationship.
Let's use it against them.
Hey, sweetness.
Make me smile - and tell me you got a name.
- Oh, I got scads of them, babe, but none paid for these personal ads.
They went with cash, totally old school.
I hate it when they're smart.
Two separate accounts in good standing.
Well, these guys are good.
Thanks.
Garcia says they covered their tracks.
How's it going in here? Reid's imitating the Hollow Man's language patterns to send a message to the Mill Creek killer.
He's offering condolences on losing Meredith Dale.
If he can't get to Meredith Dale, he's gonna need a body.
He's gonna need it real soon.
You guys worried that the hollow man's going to ruin our plan again? He wants the Mill Creek killer to get caught.
The pupil's trying to kill the teacher? Hope you're close, Reid.
You got less than an hour to meet the deadline.
You'll be surrounded.
Need you to relax as best as you can.
This guy's going to want to get close to you, and he's going to want to examine you.
He's going to want to touch me? Since you're a gift, not a marked victim, he might try to make you his own.
But we're not going to let him get that far.
We need him to get close to confirm he's the killer.
There's nothing normal about this guy.
Nothing.
You have any questions? Let's do this.
Okay.
Down you go.
Close your eyes.
Try to relax.
What do you think? Did it sound like the Hollow Man? Hopefully the Mill Creek killer will buy it.
"Dear Holden, they say imitation is the highest form of flattery.
Since you were almost in harm's way, I thought I'd share some art.
Should make you feel better.
Here's my gift to you.
Sunny.
" Hello.
FBI! Get down! Stay down! One down, one to go.
Let's stop right here.
It's going to be tough to push through this crowd.
That's the idea.
I'm getting out.
Secure a path to the door.
Everyone, take a step back.
Get back! What do you have to say to the families of the women you killed? Do you have any remorse for what you've done? - You're going to hell.
- You deserve to die! I've alerted all news outlets that we'll be holding a press conference in 10 minutes.
- And you have the script? - Right here.
Be sure to say exactly those words.
- The wording's important, JJ.
- Relax.
- It's not my first party, boys.
- Gideon, we don't have much on mill creek, especially if he says he stumbled on the body.
So what are we going to do? I'll go try and do my job.
Okay.
Thanks.
You comfortable? As comfortable as anyone can be in handcuffs.
Let me see.
I'm Jason Gideon.
You know, I don't know your name or where you're from the only thing we do know is you're an intelligent, good-looking man with an inflated ego who happens to like killing women.
Well, you had me till that last part agent Gideon.
Imagine how shocked I am, considering I haven't done anything.
I see a woman who I think is in distress in the woods and I get pounced on.
FBI wants to interview you.
Talk about your work.
We never believed we'd have you in custody.
I mean, definitely thought the Hollow Man would be easier to catch.
Is that upsetting? I thought the two of you were friends, that you admired each other's work and I don't know the Hollow Man.
But if I did, I'd say he sounds like an obsessed fan.
Is that how you see yourself, as somebody famous? Well, from what I've read about the Mill Creek killer, I'd say he's an artist.
Fascination wasn't completely one-sided.
You did respond to his ads in the paper.
No one can respect what the Hollow Man has done.
He's got no imagination.
But he's smart.
Found Meredith Dale's body, even told the media about it.
Whoever taught him, taught him very well.
That's very true.
It just sounds like the student turns on the teacher.
No, no.
He was protecting him.
Is that what you think the Hollow Man was doing? What else could it be? Manipulating you, gaining your trust.
When he got it, the Hollow Man set you up.
You were front page news.
Now you'll be a footnote.
Hollow Man's out there, you're in here.
It's all because of him.
Is that what you want? You want me to get angry to help you catch him? That is not your problem, sir.
Then what do you want? I have just have one question.
If killing those women made you an artist, the things you did to them after they were dead what does that make you? I mean, really it it just doesn't seem very artistic, does it? You went back, you fix their make-up, you'd comb their hair.
And you visited them over and over - and over.
- I didn't do that.
If you thought you were famous before, wait until the press gets a hold of your - details of your visit.
- you shut your mouth.
Shut your mouth.
You expect me to believe that you only killed those women? That it wasn't you who kept visiting the corpses? We found lipstick in your hand when we caught you.
You will not tell anyone that.
- Excuse me? - I said you can never say that.
- You didn't visit the corpses? - No.
- No, you just killed them.
- Yes.
Yes.
I killed them.
But but you can't tell anyone that I went back.
You can't do that.
The women of St.
Louis can rest easy tonight after a long year, the Mill Creek killer is in custody.
This man is highly intelligent and he uses a sophisticated ruse when luring these women in public places.
The mill creek killer is someone the BAU will want to study as one of the most complex criminals we've dealt with in years.
- Questions? - Right here.
- Yes? - What's the FBI doing about the other serial killer? We have new information about that case.
We no longer believe the shootings are related.
- Yes? - What's the new information? We believe they are isolated incidents, and we're looking into the possibility that the last two were copycats.
Jim Meyers? Are you referring to the killer who calls himself the Hollow Man? We believe the person who wrote that letter is nothing but a street thug.
We have evidence that indicates that the letter was just a prank to throw us off the investigation of the Mill Creek killer.
This is no longer a BAU case.
It lacks a certain sophistication, class, there's just nothing elegant about it.
That's all the questions we'll take for now.
Thank you.
Well, we set the bait, we'll see if he takes it.
Place your coins, keys, belts in the basket.
Walk this way.
Walk this way.
Step to the side, please.
Extend your arms.
Stay down.
Give me your weapon, now.
Get up.
Where is he? I want to see him right now.
You tell him the Hollow Man's here.
He told you to say those things about me, didn't he? He told you to use those words.
Get him out of here.
I'm no less elegant than he is.
I'm no copycat.
- Shut your mouth.
- I left you the newspaper! I gave you the Mill Creek killer! - What else do I have to do? - Go! Get him out of here! This is the story for tomorrow.
"they were our daughters, sisters, brothers, and friends.
" they have every right to be remembered and memorialized.
they didn't mention the shooter.
He was a nobody who wanted to be somebody by killing people and they didn't give him that.
Good.
Mahatma gandhi once said: "remember that allthrough history there have been tyrants and murderers and for a time they seem invincible but in the end, they always fall.
Always.
" please tell me you haven't been there for the last four days.
I heard you were flying back tonight.
Heard? How could you have heard a thing like that? This was dropped off today.
I appreciate your interest, agent, but profiling is a specialty.
We can't just let anyone who wants to give it a whirl.
The I-80 killer? Coeds in indiana? Yes, I read it on the plane.
They aren't blitz attacks.
This guy's organized.
He's a white male, early because even after 11 victims, he can still convince educated women who know there's a predator out there to get into his car.
How would you advise the police? I would stake out the Ranch House, a night club in gary.
They have a very popular ladies night on thursdays.
If you look closely, you'll see that 8 out of the 11 victims went missing on a friday morning.
So something gets this creep's motor running on thursdays.
This isn't a whirl, agent Hotchner.
I don't know how the paperwork got screwed up or maybe you believe my parents pulled some strings, which they didn't, by the way.
I belong in this unit.
And all I'm asking you for is the chance to show you that.
I still need to look into this.
I'm not promising anything.
Understood.
We brief new cases every morning at 10:00 am.
You can see facilities management about a desk.
You won't be sorry.