Taxi! Spring Street, Spring Street Station.
Spring Street Excuse me.
Please! Hotchner.
Hey.
No, i'm actually Still at the office.
I'm just getting Some things- Oh-whoa.
Hold on, Hold on, hold on.
Start from the beginning.
No, we're all familiar With the case.
When was the latest murder? Has anything in the m.
o.
Changed? So, uh, what's Your flight number? No, i'm gonna Come pick you up.
Yeah, exactly.
I can't have you Free to pick out a crib Without me.
Jj, can you get The team together? We have a case.
Nothing's come across My desk.
This one came Directly to me.
Uh, just-don't head To the airport just yet.
I'll call you as soon as i can.
Bye.
Don't get comfortable.
There'll be time to debrief On the plane.
Reid: where are we headed? New york.
about time We got the call.
I want to take garcia With us.
Hopefully they'll give us Access to their Surveillance systems.
What do we know? All the killings Are mid-day.
Single gunshot to the head With a.
22.
No.
Any witnesses? .
22-caliber pistol's Only 152 decibels.
New york streets and subways Are routinely well over 100.
It could be people aren't Even registering the gunshot Until the unsub's Already leaving the scene.
They sound like Mob hits.
Except none of them have ties To organized crime.
Do they have any Connection to each other? None they've found.
How about communication With the police? Has the unsub Tried to make contact? Surveillance cameras Have captured video Of 3 of the murders.
This is the latest.
That's the best Image they have? They're all the same.
He wears a hood And keeps his head down.
This guy's bold.
Crowded areas, Broad daylight.
So they're Completely random? It seems that way.
Son of sam all over again.
Voltaire said, "the man visited By ecstasies and visions "who takes dreams for realities Is an enthusiast.
The man who supports His madness with murder Is a fanatic.
" How come i only get to Travel with you guys Like once every 2 years? Trust me, mama, It can get old.
Oh, right, like the way that Spa treatments in 5-star hotels Can get old.
Remember the time We got on board And they hadn't chilled The cristal? Ooh.
I almost quit The b.
a.
u.
That day.
Ok, you know what? You guys can joke All you want, 'Cause i am never Leaving this plane.
The victims? Each killed in a completely Different neighborhood.
Hell's kitchen, murray hill, Lower east side, Chinatown, east harlem.
It doesn't make Any sense.
There's no common Victimology, No sexual component, No robbery, No geographical connection.
Do the police Have any leads? He's killing roughly Every 2 days.
The press is having A field day, And it sounds like The mood on the street's Getting pretty edgy.
It's a joint FBI-NYPD Taskforce? Kate Joyner heads up The new york field office.
She's running point on the case And called me directly.
Jj, would you tell them We're ready to go? Right.
Kate's starting to butt heads With the lead detectives And wanted A fresh set of eyes.
Joyner, i know her.
She's a brit, right? Well, dual citizenship.
Her father's british, Her mother's american.
She was a big deal At scotland yard Before coming to the bureau.
I heard she can be A little bit of a pain In the ass.
I didn't think so.
You know her? We liaised when she was Still at scotland yard.
And she's good? I think we're lucky To have her.
Pilot: and we're cleared For takeoff.
Please take your seats.
Can you have someone Run to my flat, Get me an extra set Of clothes? And tell forensics I don't want to just Cross-check with Connecticut And new jersey.
I want interpol as well.
Has the b.
a.
u.
Arrived yet? They should be here soon.
Shelly, can you get me The commissioner? Never mind.
Hold the call.
Is it just me Or does she look Exactly like haley? Kate.
Aaron.
How have you been? Well, thank you.
This is my team.
Kate joyner, This is david rossi, Emily prentiss, Jennifer jareau, Penelope garcia, derek morgan, And spencer reid.
Thanks for being here.
Anything that you need, Just tell me.
Please don't stand On protocol.
What can you tell us About the city's Surveillance system? Um, it's run by The nypd.
It's still In the infant stages.
It's been rather Controversial.
American privacy laws.
Um, but they've had Some success.
And i'll have complete access? They're already Expecting you.
Shelly? I'd like to get A map of the borough.
I want to do a comprehensive Geographical profile of the area In order to ascertain The unsub's mental map Before it's clouded by Our own linkage blindness.
I see you brought Your own computer.
Detectives brustin And cooper.
I'll let you do The introductions.
You caught The first shooting? They've all been In different precincts.
It wasn't until The third murder That anyone even made The connection.
I guess this is where We play nice and ask you What you need.
I'll let you all Figure out what that is.
I just ask that you run Everything back through me.
It's been my experience That having one butt On the line is enough.
Yes, ma'am.
Can i have a word With you in private? Sure.
Excuse me.
They, um Liaised when she was At scotland yard.
Of course.
So you're getting resistance From nypd? It's nothing I wasn't expecting.
They're good detectives, Just no self-respecting cop Wants to have his ass kicked By some broad with a posh British accent.
So what's going on? What can you tell me About derek morgan? Hey, so, uh, what's Your partner's problem? Uh, well Well, by the fourth murder The fbi was brought in.
Good.
We can use All the help we can get.
But, uh, all of a sudden She's taking meetings With the mayor And calling in you all Without us knowing Anything about it.
We're only here to help.
Think of us as a resource.
Ok.
Profile me.
What am i thinking? It's never gonna happen.
No offense, But we've had 5 murders.
Hope it gets better Than that.
You must be fbi.
Lisa bartleby.
Penelope garcia.
May i? I hardly ever Get visitors.
You'll hardly know i'm here.
What's your operating system? Um, linux os With 6 gigs of ram.
And a dual quad core With a geforce 8800 Ultra extreme vid card And a cisco asa 5500 firewall.
Yeah.
Bitchin'.
How many cameras? Uh, 4,468, Not including the ones That only run In the housing projects.
And all the footage Is stored? Catalogued and digitized.
Beautiful.
'Cause my boss man Wants me to send him a file So he can run facial Recognition software On each of the crime scenes.
Um, i've already enhanced All of the photos As much as i can.
No, i'm talking about using it On the crowd immediately After the shootings.
This is icky, but these creeps, They sometimes like to come back And watch the police Deal with their handiwork.
And voila.
Can i ask you a question? When was the last time You went home And got some sleep? None of us are going to Sleep until this is over.
Who in the hell thinks they Can get away with murder In the middle of the day In new york city? Someone patient Who waits for the one Who gets separated From the flock.
Bang.
Is that the spot? Yeah.
Thereabouts.
Are we boring you? Look, i know you don't Like ssa joyner.
Fine.
I get it.
But we're here To do a job.
Have any of your people Ever been cops? Chicago.
Then you'll understand.
I take it real personal If something like this Happens in my city.
I was a beat cop During the son of sam.
This is worse.
He's not just going after One type.
He's going after everybody.
And i need everybody Working on this case, Taking it personally.
You have that.
We'll see.
How long have you Been doing this? Uh, about 6 months.
I wish i could tell you It gets easier.
Yeah, well, i'm used to Pulling footage up For muggings, Maybe robberies.
Watching someone Get shot in the head You know what helps me? You make it your own.
You know? You Separate yourself From what you see on the screen.
This isn't exactly, Uh Regulation.
Well, then thank god It's only us in here.
Do you want to see a superfox? What camera's on The last crime scene? Derek morgan Lisa bartleby.
Lisa bartleby, Derek morgan.
This guy's definitely Not afraid to get up close And personal.
Or be visible.
If you watch the tape, He ducks his head the second He steps off the train.
So he knows when He's being filmed.
Well, we've had Glimpses, but the Descriptions Have been sketchy.
Some people said He's a light-skinned black man, Asian, puerto rican, Basically every homeboy In the city.
Ballistics were the same For every shooting? We checked the records Back 10 years.
The gun's never been Recycled.
.
22s aren't exactly The weapon of choice these days.
Unless you're israeli Intelligence.
That's what the mossad Uses for all their Political assassinations.
All i know Is this guy's organized.
He studies the cameras, Carries a gun That's easy to conceal.
He knows what he's doing.
We're gonna need records Over the last 6 months For any arrests on gun Violence or gun possession In every borough except The ones where the shootings Have taken place.
Uh i don't get it.
He won't strike Near where he lives.
What makes you so sure? It's anti-geographical Profiling.
Now it's anti-geographical Profiling? Yeah, come on.
You wonder why We're so skeptical? This unsub's organized.
He strikes At the same time of day.
He knows where The cameras are placed.
That means he's doing His own pre-surveillance.
A need-motivated killer Operates within his own Comfort zone.
An organized killer With some other motivation Will make sure to strike Outside that zone.
Exactly.
Not where he lives.
Unfortunately, that means That every other Neighborhood in the city Has a reason To be terrified.
Excuse me.
Pretzel, no mustard.
Uniforms are rounding up Witnesses.
It doesn't seem like anyone Got a clean look.
It's over in a flash.
He's probably gone before Anyone even realizes What's happening.
Is this what it felt like During the son of sam? First we realized That if the violence Was truly random, There was almost no way Of stopping it.
It seems like these people Have figured that out.
From the placement Of that camera, Odds are the only view They're gonna get Is the back of his head.
Let's not be too quick To decide What we do or don't have.
Whoo! The duchess Of work has spoken.
You mind telling me why I'm catching attitude from her? Fbi brass Has made it clear to her That if she doesn't Bring this case home, She's gonna be reassigned.
And you are at the top Of the list to replace her.
You're kidding me.
Why should you be surprised? You're good at your job.
People notice that.
What happened to the bureau Patting itself on the back For stealing her away From scotland yard? I don't know.
Politics here Are different.
And you can see she Doesn't pull punches.
Communicating with us.
Cooper: what's that? That's a tarot card.
Death.
Isn't that a little On the nose, Even for a psycho? So we think this guy's Into spiritual garbage? If he is, he certainly Doesn't know tarot.
The death card doesn't Actually signify Physical death.
It's more of a transformation From one place to another- A job promotion Or a marriage.
So if he's not telling us He's into fortune-telling, What's with the card? The d.
c.
Sniper left The exact same card At one of his scenes.
So this unsub Must see himself In that role.
He's thriving Off creating a panic.
More important, He studies other cases.
He's telling us He knows we're here.
What have we got? The latest shooting.
This was the previous Murder.
Ok, do you see Anything weird here? He sprints off in one And walks calmly in the other.
It's two entirely Different demeanors.
Should be set.
Look at this.
Garcia, Are you still there? Would i ever leave you? Ok, check it out.
I did a digital perspective Analysis rendering On the shootings Where we have footage.
Now, the first two Are inconclusive, But the last two I found something tres weird.
Your calm walking type, He is about 6'1".
But your sprinter, He's like 5'9", 5'10", tops.
We've got more Than one unsub.
So, we have More than one unsub.
What does that tell us? Most teams stick together.
Uh, ng and lake, The krays.
Bittaker and norris.
They don't usually Kill separately.
Could be some kind Of gang initiation.
Gangs will kill you If they encroach On your territory, Not random people All over the city.
I'll coordinate With the gang taskforce, Make sure we have An overview by morning.
Do you think We have enough For a working profile? Broad strokes.
Dave, you and reid Talk to the agents here.
Morgan and prentiss, Brief the police When each shift Comes on duty tomorrow.
I think we should Get out on the streets.
I brought you here To create a profile.
Which we can give In the morning, And then they can share it With the afternoon shift.
We've allocated every Extra man we have.
This is new york city.
It's not like a few More people Is going to blanket The city.
I understand it's a long shot, But these guys, They hit at mid-day.
We could target ingress And egress to particular Neighborhoods.
Position us near Express stops- Morgan, It's not your call.
I'd like to join you In the profile If that's not Stepping on your toes.
No problem.
Let's see it again.
Look at this.
Late edition doesn't Miss a beat.
Jj.
Will.
Took a shot and flew to d.
c.
, But that didn't work out.
I figured a train ride To new york was only A few more hours.
Detective.
I'm sorry for Showing up like this.
I know you're working.
But, um i can't stand you Being on this case And me not being there.
Not with what's going on.
Is there a problem? I'm pregnant.
Oh, my god! Jj! Congratulations! I've asked jj to marry me.
Will.
We're working out Some kinks.
We'll, uh, give you Both some privacy.
Hotch.
Jj, you could have Told me.
I know.
I understand if you Need to take some time.
No, i-i want to be here.
Ok.
Are you crazy? I told you i couldn't Get any personal time.
Come back to d.
c.
With me tomorrow.
Oh, you're not serious.
They know now.
They'd understand.
Will, w-we're covering A case with 6 murders.
Exactly.
Your job is too dangerous now.
Yeah, exactly like yours.
What, are you gonna Give up your shield? Look, i love the gesture, And i love the romance, But We're both gonna be Parents, will.
Neither one of us has, You know, exactly A typical job.
The first thing a cop does When she gets pregnant Is she takes herself Out of the field.
Ok, you know what? We only have until 7:00.
So can we just argue About names and cribs? Only if you let me win.
Not a chance.
Ok, let's start With what we know.
With these unsubs, It's not personal.
It's not about sex, It's not about greed.
Which is why we think There's something bigger At play here.
This isn't random.
There has to be a motive.
Now, our first theory Is that we're dealing With a team.
In the case Of the d.
c.
Snipers, There was actually One intended victim.
John muhammad wanted To kill his ex-wife, But he knew if he did, He'd be the prime suspect, So he created a spree In order to mask His primary motivation.
Muhammad and malvo Also left a death card At one of their scenes, Just like this unsub.
We believe our unsubs Have studied that case.
They're opening A line of communication.
Hold on.
So now We got these guys Playing games Just 'cause you're here? We're just saying the unsubs Are sophisticated enough To study other crimes.
That doesn't answer The question.
Joe.
Easy.
Hear 'em out.
Hey, i got requests For gun permits up 200% In my precinct.
This whole city's About to go off, And we all need To deal with that.
Hey, listen.
You're right.
If the card was left Because of us, then yes, They are playing games.
But what that tells us Is at least one of them Has some intelligence.
And like i said, They know about other cases.
He's also studied the placement Of the surveillance systems Well enough to avoid detection.
Most teams have a dominant And submissive member.
Because of the relative Intelligence of these unsubs And the fact they stick To a set time pattern, We believe at least one Of them has a steady job.
We've asked the police To canvass their precincts, Check businesses that open And close around the time Of the shootings.
We're hoping someone Will be able to identify A father-son or coworkers That fit the Dominant-submissive profile.
And what's The other theory? It's less likely, But it could be some sort Of gang initiation.
We've asked the police To put every available Undercover on the streets.
These are all known Gang members in manhattan.
Most of them are out of Chinatown and clinton.
We'd like you to study these And keep an eye out For anyone Who looks suspicious.
Joyner: i'll also be detailing A number of you as well.
Stay behind when the agents Have finished and i'll Give you your assignments.
Like they said, We think there's something Bigger at play here.
So talk to the people On your beats, See if something sparks, And pray this thing Ain't random.
How many undercovers Do we have? Over 80, but it Barely makes a blip.
Surveillance cameras Aren't designed To prevent crime, They're supposed to Help us catch the perp After the fact.
I got one.
Is there anyone nearby? Negative.
This is the surveillance Command center.
We have a possible Murder suspect At the subway platform On 59th and lex.
Ok.
Hotchner.
Does it look like he could Be one of our guys? What's going on? We've got eyes On one of them.
He's on the subway Platform at 59th and lex.
Been right there.
He's got a gun.
Oh, my god.
He shot her.
Where the hell Are the police? This is kate joyner With the fbi.
We have a murder suspect, Subway platform, 59th and lex.
He's getting away.
Garcia, can you get eyes On him aboveground? He's heading west On 59th street.
If he makes it to the park, We've lost him.
We've lost the visual.
Are the police On the scene? Negative.
We could've had that guy.
Even if we were On that platform, Odds are he would have Moved on to somewhere More isolated.
Maybe, but it was worth Taking a shot.
We had every available man On the street.
And i suggested to you That you use this team.
Second-guessing doesn't Do us any good right now.
Hotch, how am i supposed To look these cops in the eye And tell them that we're Actually here to help them? We're here To present a profile.
That's what we need to do.
I said to put us At express stops- - And that's exactly Where they hit.
It's not your place To have this discussion.
You need to back off.
My place? We got 7 bodies, man.
Which is exactly why We need to stay focused.
Focused.
From where i'm standing, All your focus is on her.
Take a walk, now.
I know.
I was out of line.
You get too emotionally Involved sometimes.
I know the feeling.
I just felt like hotch Was taking her side.
There are no sides here.
I know.
The word is, they have An eye on you If ssa joyner gets canned.
People talk.
But if She were to get fired, It would be because We didn't solve this case.
Rossi, I hope you're not saying You think i want her to fail.
Of course not.
But i've never seen you Push a superior Like that before.
So would you take the job? I don't know.
It might be nice To finally be the one Making the calls.
And dealing With the politics of Running a field office? That doesn't seem like you.
B.
a.
u.
Wears people out, man.
Look at gideon.
That man was the best, And in the end, He simply ran away.
I mean, hotch hasn't even Thought about cracking a smile In over a year.
That man has to take A personal day Just so he can have A conversation With his own kid.
What about you? How many times You been married? I get it.
But i'll make you A deal.
If i think you're losing it, I'll pull you out myself.
But right now, I see someone who wants To get back on the job.
Or is there another reason Why you haven't even Touched that beer? Listen, um About before You spoke your mind.
I respect that.
Jj, reid, and prentiss Went to the crime scene With the detectives.
This is the first time They've killed Your analyst went over The latest footage.
This is a different shooter From the last two.
There's 3 of them now? Who the hell are these guys? I want you all out On the street tomorrow.
What are we missing? When we first saw this case, What did it remind us of? Son of sam.
Same kind of unsub.
Random shootings, Not need-driven, No sexual component.
Except that berkowitz Admitted that he would return To the scenes of his crimes Days later to masturbate.
Exactly.
So you're thinking If the dominant unsub Has a similar m.
o We get garcia to study The footage and see If the same person Keeps returning To the crime scene In the days Following the shootings.
All we've been Looking at right now Are the immediate Aftermaths of the crimes.
It's worth a shot.
We'll hit the street Tomorrow.
Dave, will you grab reid And go over the profile And make sure we didn't Leave anything out? Thanks.
Ok, people, talk to me.
Mousketeer roll call- Check.
Herald square.
Check.
Chambers street? Check.
Check.
Detective The son of sam- This case still Pisses you off Like it was yesterday.
Yeah, it does.
There have been a lot Of killers in this city.
Why him? He was laughing at us And we couldn't catch him.
The only way We grabbed him Was through A parking ticket.
What are you thinking? He hasn't contacted us again.
So? This doesn't fit.
These unsubs are organized.
They use pre-surveillance.
They strike in the heart Of the day And yet they haven't done Anything To seek out media attention.
And then this.
You said it was To tell you they knew You were here.
We profiled that he was Trying to open a line Of communication, Create panic, But if that was the case, His correspondence Should escalate.
After they left Their death card, Muhammad and malvo Demanded an atm card With a million dollars In a bank account Just to taunt the police.
Berkowitz wrote rambling Letters about hunting The city, Describing himself As a monster.
These unsubs are more Disciplined than that.
The fact that they haven't Contacted the press Tells me That this was private.
It's only for us.
So what does that mean? They're ramping up To something, And they want us to know That they're watching us.
If you saw All of these traits Completely out of context, What would be The first profile To pop into your head? Who do we have Out on the streets? Talk.
Garcia, do you have eyes On everyone on the team? I can get them.
So, uh If we're undercover, Maybe we should, uh, You know, Act like a couple.
Are you still working This tired Sexual tension angle? I don't know.
You're the fortune-teller.
You tell me.
You want to know What profiling is, really? Why do i have a feeling I'm gonna hear No matter what i say? It's just noticing Behavior.
I'm about to hear About mine.
Is that the deal? Ok.
When we first met, When your partner was sarcastic And said, "yes, ma'am," You instinctively reached For your detective shield, As if you were Protecting it.
That tells me you don't Like him disrespecting The chain of command.
But you're also loyal, So you didn't say Something to him.
I'd say you were military, Probably an officer.
Praise in public, Censure in private, right? You're right-handed, But you have two Different color pen marks On your left hand.
I'd guess you have A toddler at home Just learning how to draw.
You don't wear a ring.
And you were quick To flirt with me.
So you're happy To let people think You are a player.
But if i took you up on it, You would run for the hills, Because you love your wife And you would never Actually cheat on her.
Wow.
You might just Solve this case yet.
Ok, this is not good.
What's going on? I'm doing what you asked.
I'm looking at the footage To see if i see The same person Coming back to the crime Scene in the days After the shootings.
So i find the camera With the widest angle On the scene.
So you don't have to sift Through hundreds.
Exactly, but- Someone's hacked in.
Garcia.
I'm on it, i'm on it.
He's running east on 16th.
He's headed our way.
Move! Move! Get out of the way! Cooper? Garcia! We've got An officer down.
Let me see.
You're gonna be ok.
Garcia, can you see us? We have an officer down.
Cooper, stay with me.
Ok, you're gonna be ok.
Cooper, stay with me.
Are you ok? Is he gonna make it? I don't know.
He lost A lot of blood.
He's not gonna live To tell us anything.
Any i.
d.
On him? Nothing.
This is not good.
I shouldn't have Had to shoot him.
Emily, he shot a cop.
You did what you had to do.
No, no, not that.
I mean, he - He was ahead of us.
He would have Gotten away, But he stopped And waited.
So he felt trapped, Figured he'd shoot his way out.
I don't know.
Tell me about His behavior.
Was he acting panicked? Was he winded? His hands were steady.
His eyes were dead calm.
I mean, these guys Have been Hyper-vigilant, Organized.
They do Pre-surveillance.
I mean, what are the odds They would shoot somebody Me and cooper are standing? You think he deliberately Shot someone Where he could be caught? What if he did? What if they chose This spot Because we were here? What are you thinking? He had no i.
d.
On him.
He waited until We caught up to him.
He was strangely calm- It's almost like Suicide by cop.
Why? Why would he do that? Oh i don't know.
Maybe to make us think Everything was finished.
We need to walk back Through this profile.
We think we might have A serious problem.
What is it? We have multiple unsubs.
They're disciplined.
They're using Counter-surveillance.
They know the fbi Movements.
There's a hierarchy.
What does that Usually equal? Terrorism.
So how does this work? The murderers simulate A bombing.
From there they station Someone to watch and gauge Police response time.
At which point they know When to bring in A second bomb.
The goal is always To take out the first Round of civilians, Followed by a second wave Of emergency responders.
It's crazy, but it's ingenious.
They get a practice run, And if someone Catches the shooter, They think They just have a murderer.
The cell isn't compromised.
It's lo-fi.
Smartest way to plan For a terrorist event.
Creating panic ensures That they see the most Urgent response times Short of a bombing.
So there's been Having followers Do the shootings Would ensure they're willing To kill or be killed For the cause.
It fits the profile.
There is something larger At play.
It's similar To gang initiation.
Especially if they're Home-grown.
They haven't had a chance To prove themselves.
I think they're targeting Points of entry.
All the murders Have taken place near A bridge or a tunnel.
Holland tunnel, midtown tunnel, Manhattan bridge.
If bombs went off, Emergency response Would shut down Any ability to get In or out of the city.
It's like people would be Trapped on the island.
Keep in mind it's still A theory, just like any profile.
Talk to us, garcia.
We got a problem.
I went through and checked All 4,468 cameras.
They hacked into The surveillance system.
They've got footage Of every crime scene.
They've been watching Since the beginning.
How could we Not have caught that? They were smart.
It wasn't system-wide.
You had to check Each camera individually.
And this is from Every crime scene? I'm afraid so.
They hacked into One camera at every scene.
Thanks, garcia.
So much for theory.
We need to hit The ground running.
I'm gonna head To the hospital.
I'll check on cooper And brief detective brustin.
Good.
Dave, will you Go talk to the commissioner, And, morgan, you brief Homeland security.
Jj and i will talk to The port authority police.
Kate and i will go talk To the mayor And we'll meet back here As soon as possible.
One advantage That we have right now Is that they don't know We know they're watching.
Agent jareau.
Thank you.
From will? He's going home To new orleans tonight.
You ok? He doesn't want To be in the way.
He's quitting his job? Do you need everyone In the field? Reid, you can go brief Port authority police By yourself.
Jj, you run point From the office.
Why don't you go back To the hotel, Tell will what's going on, And then get back here Straight away.
And jj Yes, sir.
Congratulations.
How's cooper doing? He's still in surgery.
It doesn't look good.
We think we know What this is about.