ORANGE COUNTY,CA Rtraffic's looking pretty good this afternoon for your evening commute.
This is john brown with your kmpa traffic report.
Stay tuned for southland sports,coming up after this.
Can't be late for my own party, norman.
I gotta go.
You're gonna have to meet me there.
Ok.
You're not gonna wear that tie, are you? Not one of my favorites.
Don't forget to put the seat down.
Jeez,lady! - Excuse me,miss? - Yes? Excuse me.
Oh,wait.
Hold on one second.
All right,i'm back.
No,go on.
And as i was saying The principal's office called.
Yeah--plagiarism.
Yeah,well,i was in the middle of closing on the ocean park 5-bedroom And i'm telling you, if i lose that commission, it is coming out of his college fund.
¸èÊÖ:The Kinks * and he comes back home at five-thirty,* * gets the same train every time.
* * and he's, oh, so good,* * and he's, oh, so fine,* * and he's, oh, so healthy,* * in his body and his mind.
* * he's a well respected man about town,* * doin' the best things so conservatively.
* * and his mother goes to meetings, * * while his father pulls the maid, * * and she stirs the tea with councilors, * * while discussin' foreign trade, * * and she passes looks, as well as bills * * at every suave young man * What's gotten into you tonight? proudly presents sync:ßÇÈâÈâ Season04 Episode11 Normal "every normal man must be tempted at times "to spit on his hands, hoist the black flag, "and begin to slit throats.
" H.
l.
mencken.
This is orange county, california.
real estate broker and a mother, Was shotgunned on the 91 freeway.
- She survived this? - Barely.
She's paralyzed from the waist down.
The second and third victims were both d.
o.
a.
There were different vehicles for each shooting.
A small black suv, a black sedan,a white sedan, no makes,no plates.
No solid witnesses? The first victim described the shooter as a normal,middle-aged white guy in an suv.
She gave that description but she couldn't rember anything else? Isn't that consistent with trauma? Uh,actually,no.
Trauma victims either remember everything or nothing.
So wait--the third victim was shot last week, we just got the phone call today? Until the third shooting, the locals weren't convinced it was a serial shooter.
There were different cars, and the first shooting there was a different weapon.
It's the same weapon.
The shot pattern on the second and third one are much wider,though.
He sawed off the shotgun.
It's the same shooter.
He's evolving,and quickly.
The media has already dubbed him the road warrior.
That explains why they wanted us there so quickly.
What do you mean? This type of unsub is the hardest to catch.
Totally impersonal victims.
A third of the crime scene flees with him and his vehicle.
The victim's car's a wreck.
And the last third, the road, it's contaminated by all the other cars that drive over it.
So how do we get him? We build a solid profile.
We release it to the public with an appeal for help.
Somebody knows this guy.
And it's my job to make them realize.
Sheriff's.
.
Thea salinas, sheriff's county homicide.
I'm running the taskforce.
I'm special agent jordan todd, special agents rossi, hotchner, prentiss Morgan And that's dr.
Spencer reid.
- Are these the vehicles from the shootings? - Yes.
Did you set up the hotline? Like you asked.
We have the local stations putting the number out there.
We're getting about a dozen calls an hour.
I'll alert the media to stand by for our press conference.
Excuse me.
The sheriff's department and the chp are on tac alert.
We've got choppers on round-the-clock freeway patrol.
The victims' vehicles,with maps,csps,and bullet points.
Everything we got on the case is in this room.
Anything solid on the tip line? Usual nutjobs, crime buffs, bored senior citizens.
You might have got everything squared away.
It's not me.
It's the shooter.
The o.
c.
has an endless supply of 3 things-- Freeways,news coverage, and blond female luxury car owners.
People are pretty scared? I could ask for a submarine and get it.
The first m.
o.
in the first shooting differs dramatically from the other two.
Daylight on a crowded freeway.
That's dozens of potential witnesses.
It's high-risk.
He got lucky.
Well,then, he's a fast study.
Sawed off his shotgun and lowered his risk by switching to nights and changing vehicles.
What if he wasn't planning on murder the first time? You think the first shooting was spontaneous? Well,we know what he's capable of when he plans ahead.
If i'm not planning to commit a crime, why not drive my own vehicle? So the suv is his actual car.
But then,why did he have a gun in the suv if he wasn't planning to commit murder? And what happened to make him pull that first trigger? We need to re-interview the first victim.
Ms.
hannity, i'm agent aaron hotchner.
This is agent emily prentiss.
We're from the fbi.
She already told the police everything she can remember.
Rick It's ok.
Please.
It's just the two of us.
He feels like it's his job to protect me.
I understand you've spoken to the police.
I just need to go back through the shooting with you.
It only comes back in pieces.
We can take it slowly.
Just try to piece together your day,if you can.
Have you seen accidents like this before? A few.
Do people recover? The doctor said she has a good chance.
- It's my fault.
- No.
This is no one's fault but the man who shot your mother.
I got in trouble at school.
She was on her way there.
She shouldn't have even been in her car.
So you were angry? I don't know.
I suppose.
I know this is difficult, but every detail helps us understand who this man is.
Come on.
Come on,move! I was impatient.
And you cut him off? Was there anything else? Did he swear? Did he honk? Did he threaten you in any way? Excuse me.
Oh,wait.
Hold on one second.
He tried to speak to me.
What did he say? He couldn't say anything.
I wouldn't give him a chance.
What? Now you want to talk about your feelings like you're some chick? You drive like an old lady.
All right,i'm back.
No,go on.
And as i was saying If he hadn't seemed so normal I wouldn't have said anything.
I I usually don't even use my horn, because on the road You never know.
I'll ask your son to come back in.
Is she ok? She says you've been taking very good care of her.
I guess so.
She's lucky to have you.
So What happened? She made it personal.
When the victimology's this specific, we know the victims represent a specific person to him.
Who? Given the fact that he's the same age and race as the victims, Likely a current or former wife or girlfriend.
So why not just kill the actual person? She's just a scapegoat for his own personal failings.
He knows if he kills her, he loses that scapegoat.
So he just goes around blowing away any women? No,just women that remind him of his wife.
When this type of killer is triggered, they need to release the resentment quickly.
Subsequently,they tend to strike close to the focus of that resentment.
So if the focus is his wife, then that focus is his home.
Yeah.
He almost certainly lives in this area.
This is his kill zone.
Uh,what are these various markers everywhere? Uh,roadwork.
Judith hannity said that he shot her after she challenged him personally.
Before that, he was almost apologetic.
What's going on? Out of the 30 roadwork sites in the kill zone, only 2 were alternate merges, Both less than 3 miles from the crime scenes.
Alternate merges? Multiple lanes funneled down to one.
One car per lane, alternating at the drivers' discretion.
These sites allow him to set up the confrontation.
A guy who follows the rules may lash out once, but to do it again, he'd need similar provocation.
So he seeks out alternate merge sites, then he goes through them over and over again Until he finds a woman that fits his victim type and who cuts him off.
So,we have to shut down every alternate merge in the county immediately.
And we need to talk to the crews that work these sites.
So what does all this tell you? Impersonal killers are like drug addicts.
The first time gives them the ultimate high, and after that, no high is as good.
Unfortunately,the addict doesn't know that.
He will chase that high to the gates of insanity and death.
By now,killing is all our unsub things about.
He's set up the exact same situation again and again, hoping to get the same result.
He begins to think he's doing it wrong.
He becomes obsessed with improving his skills, honing his m.
o.
And tailoring his weapon to his deadly purpose.
He figures if he gets them all just right, if he can get his technique and his tools perfected, He'll feel that first high again.
He's becoming a more lethal addict.
And he'll never accept that the high is gone and it won't come back.
He'll never stop.
Never.
You know how many cars i see drive through my work site here? Your boss said you were the safety officer that night? So? So that means you would have been holding the sign to slow cars down.
We're looking for a man in a white sedan, and he would have come through over and over again.
The driver would have been going extra slow, like he was daring anyone to cut him off.
Son of a bitch.
You remember someone? Yeah.
I thought the guy was lost.
I mean, i even talked to tony about this guy dressing like a hard-ass, but he drove like a chick.
- No offense.
- None taken.
What do you mean, dressed like a hard-ass? This jackass was wearing a leather jacket, he's got sunglasses on, They're mirrored, you know, like the cops use.
But it was dark out.
He's starting to role-play.
He's breaking from reality.
Do you remember anything else about this man? A car cut him off, and he stuck his arm out across the front seat.
But after that i didn't see him come through again.
Show me what he did with his arm.
Like this.
Like he was keeping a passenger from hitting the dashboard? Yeah,but the dude was alone.
- Thanks for your time.
- Sure.
What's wrong? A small suv is a family vehicle.
Between that and the hand gesture, i'm afraid that our unsub's married with children.
Why does that matter? Well,if he's breaking from reality and he's lashing out at surrogates for his life, Then it's only a matter of time before he tries to wipe out the real thing.
Are you saying this guy's gonna kill his wife and kids? Call your people.
We need to get a profile out as soon as possible.
The hyper-masculine disguise, victim preference, And the emasculating trigger of the first attack All tell us this is an unsub suffering a masculine identity crisis.
A masculine identity crisis? That's why he's driving around blowing women away? No.
Judy hannity was just the trigger.
We need to identify the precipitating trauma.
Something happened in the unsub's life, something so traumatic, It turned a normal man into a serial killer.
So he's suffering from some kind of psychotic break.
Which means the world he sees around him has changed,and so has his role in it.
And that of his family.
His perception of his home life is the key to his pathology.
At home this unsub feels less than a man, a failure as a father and as a husband.
He feels his children don't need or respect him.
And that he's unwanted and obsolete in their lives.
As a husband he feels emasculated and humiliated by his wife.
Yeah,right, that'd be good.
Now,these beliefs and perceptions, real or imagined, Have destroyed this individual's masculine self-image.
This unsub is delusional.
He's now dressing in this road warrior persona.
It gives him feelings of power and purpose that he craves.
It is now the single most important thing in his life.
And he will die before giving it up.
His new fantasy persona can't co-exist with the everyday reality of his home life.
Which means sooner or later he's going to kill his entire family.
So what do we do? Our strategy's three-fold.
First we find every small-model blue suv owner in the estimated kill zone.
in that zone, and we man it with our people.
And 3--we release our profile to the public.
Somebody out there knows this man.
They just don't realize it.
Hey,norman.
Can you put this on my account? I'll need mr.
Manning's approval.
Whenever you get around to it.
I'm still waiting for last month's expense summary,norman.
I'm sorry.
The guys on the sixth floor are asking for my quarterly.
I need that summary.
I got--i know i got-- i got it here somewhere.
You're an old,bald loser and everyone laughs at you.
What did you say? I didn't say anything.
Look,norman, the sixth floor doesn't care what's going on in your life or how long you've been with the firm.
They're all about the numbers, and the numbers tell them that younger workers cost less and produce more.
I like you,norman.
I know how hard things have been for you these past few months.
Don't give those bastards on the sixth floor an excuse, you know what i mean? Yeah.
Yeah.
Here it is.
Thanks.
We ask the public to listen very carefully to the following description.
Anyone who believes they recognize this individual should call our tip line immediately.
We are looking for a white, middle-aged,married father.
We believe his wife is blond, approximately 40 years old, Resembles the victims, and drives a luxury sedan.
This individual drives a blue small-model suv and most likely lives in this area.
It is also very possible this individual recently suffered a personal trauma in his life.
All points bulletin: be on the lookout for a worthless loser named norman, Who resents anyone with a life and kills just to prove he's not an emasculated loser.
It's very possible this individual has suffered a personal trauma in his life.
Again,a white,middle-aged, married father.
We believe his wife is blond,approximately 40 years old, Resembles the victims, and drives a luxury sedan.
This They do it to me, they do it to me, they do it to me, they do it to me! Why do they always do that to me? Makes you Damn Hey,buddy.
Are you all right? Joe karem and timothy calvert.
D.
o.
a.
no wants,no warrants.
They work in the area, and detectives are notifying their families.
Sawed-off 12-gauge, close range, shot out of the driver's side window, driving a small blue suv.
That's our guy, but he went way off script.
Multiple male victims, surface street, daytime attack, and he drove his own vehicle.
Something triggered him and pissed him off.
What time did this happen? Approximately 2:20.
Single witness says the shooter was driving a small blue suv.
Didn't get a plate.
Middle-aged white guy, wearing a tie.
Suit jacket hanging in the back.
- Press conference? - 2:20.
Jordan went on the air at You said the unsub was going to be watching the coverage.
the press conference to this intersection.
He drives the speed limit, taking into account red lights and mid-day traffic No more than 10 miles.
So he lives within 10 miles of here? - I don't think so.
- I don't understand.
We were wrong.
He was wearing a tie, suit jacket hanging in the back.
And considering the time of day He works in the area.
I'm gonna call garcia.
Give it to me.
Hey,baby.
Can you pull up a map of the crime scene area for me? Sugar,i could shut down the power grid to the whole city if you told me to.
Yeah,i'm sure you can.
Right now i just need you to highlight a 10-mile radius around this point.
Track any calls coming in from this area to the tip line.
Coordinate with prentiss and reid,would you? I'm all over it.
Mwah.
Thanks,baby girl.
You think he's gonna kill again soon,don't you? And he's done killing surrogates.
Did you know? Excuse me.
This is not the time or the place.
You gonna do this in front of the press? He killed those people because of something i said.
No.
Whenwetalk to the public, it's always a possibility.
That is part of the job.
Tell me now if you can do it or not.
Damn right.
I can do the shop.
Good.
You're about to give another press conference.
We're on the air in 3,2,1 We are prepared to release to the public additional information About the individual responsible for the freeway shooting.
The individual is a white, 45- to He works in this area.
He wears a suit and tie to work and left work very abruptly shortly after 2:00, immediately after watching our earlier statement about him.
If anyone has any additional information, please call our anonymous tip line immediately.
Thank you.
One last thing.
This individual has committed horrible crimes and must be held to account, but he is a husband and a father.
He's violent and he's troubled, but he must be capable of some degree of mercy and compassion.
And so We appeal to him Do not hurt any more people.
Please turn yourself in.
Norman? Is something wrong? I'm the road warrior.
What? I'm the road warrior, the freeway shooter.
I thought i should tell you.
Of course you are,dear.
And i'm the zodiac killer.
We should compare notes at dinner.
What's so funny? Dad confessed.
He's the road warrior.
You're such a dork.
Yeah.
What is the exact address? What do we got? You have no idea how many middle-aged white men there are out there Who have someone close to them that think they're a serial killer.
And you said that he saw the press conference,right? Ok,thank you.
Guys,i think we might have something.
That's funny,when i heard the description in the first press conference, i thought of norman.
Then i just thought, it couldn't be,you know? He's so quiet.
What is it that mr.
Hill does for you? He's in charge of the company's travel expenses.
This is his desk.
Does he have access to the company cars? Yeah,the whole fleet.
What about the first press conference made you think of norman? The woman mentioned something about him suffering a tragedy.
Daddy, what's taking so long? Daddy will be done in a minute.
Just stay in the car,baby.
I want to help.
Jenny,get back in the car! Get back in the car! No! How long ago did his daughter die? I really should have done more to help him.
Thank you.
Norman's personnel file.
This address current? It should be.
Why does he have 2 files? Uh,we cross-reference married couples.
I don't understand.
Norman's wife vanessa works here,too.
We need to speak to her.
Uh,she's not here.
She just got a promotion, so she took a couple of weeks off.
Get in the car.
- I just got home from school.
- Don't talk back to me! Norman,what's going on? You'll see.
Everybody,now.
I'm driving.
Norman,what are you doing? - Norman,slow down! - No! What do you mean,no? We have to get out of here.
Dad,let us out of the car! Damn it.
- Please.
- Ok,norman, the police are behind us.
- Shut up! - Shut up? - The police should stay out of this.
- Stay out of it? You ran a stop sign and you're going like 100 miles an hour.
- This is family business! - Family? - You have to stop this.
- No.
What we have to do is we have to get out of here.
Please,dad,this is crazy! Norman,stop this car right now! Shut up! All of you shut up! Salinas.
Where? We have a chase.
Small model suv,blue.
Driving recklessly.
117th and pacific.
Morgan,we have a high-speed chase, 117 and pacific.
It sounds like our guy.
All right,listen, we're closer to 117, so we're on our way now.
We'll head over to the hill house.
If he's having a break, he could be on his way there to finish it.
- We're on our way.
Be careful.
- Ok.
Norman,please stop.
We should have done this a long time ago.
Done what? We can't move on living in that house.
I can't do it.
- Move on? - I don't know how you could.
How you could-- you keep looking at those same walls, the same The same pictures.
Norman,what are you talking about? It's my job to make everything right again.
- Turn right here.
- Where,here? Right--right-- turn right here! Turn right here! I'm gonna need a little more notice than that,kid.
Sorry.
Sorry.
Norman,please just tell me what's happening.
Why are you doing this? Because i know that you blame me.
Blame you? I see the way you all look at me.
I see it.
- All right,left.
- Where? Uh,next light.
Norman,please,just stop.
Oh,my god.
Where did you get that? I tried to tell you, but you wouldn't listen.
You just wouldn't listen! Repeat,shots fired! On the chase now.
He's losin' it.
Reid,does it look like the chase could be headed to his house? Uh,yeah,i think so.
It almost looks like he's starting to go in a wide circle toward that direction.
Ok,emily, we're right outside it now.
All units, pursuit now headed over memorial bridge.
We're almost there.
Turn right at the next light.
Norman,where did you get that gun? - How could you forget her so fast? - What? - You think i forgot? - You moved on! I cry every day! Don't lie to me! Don't lie to me! Memorial bridge is around the next corner.
Hold on! Hold on! - You good! - We're good,go,go! Vanessa hill! Fbi! Are you inside? Maybe they went somewhere safe.
Let's check around back.
We can never be a family again in that house.
We can never be a family anywhere! No.
No,don't say that.
- You let her die,daddy! - No,no,no, it wasn't my fault.
Of course it was your fault! Please don't say it! Just stop saying that! I wasn't there.
Sasha wasn't there.
You had her and you let her die! Just shut up! Just shut up! A '63 astin martin db-5.
James bond.
Goldfinger.
Guys.
Reid,get on the radio and tell them we're in the chase.
This is the fbi behavioral analysis unit.
We caught up to the chase and are now monitoring.
We ask if you're able to stop the vehicle, You allow us to take the lead in contacting the driver.
We believe him to be a severely deranged suspect.
Copy.
Let's split up.
It was your fault.
I'm sorry.
You let my baby girl die.
And you think i forgot?! It was your fault.
No.
No,no,no, no,no! Norman! What are you doing? What are you doing? - Don't move! - My family's inside! - Stop and listen to me! Listen to me! - No,my family's-- - nobody is in that car.
- Nobody - Your family's gone,norman.
- No,they're in there.
They're gone,norman! Look inside.
Look in the car.
Look in the car.
They were never there.
It's over.
They were never with you.
No,but they were.
They were Your family's gone,norman.
Oh,god,what did i do? Oh,what did i do to my family? My family! I'm sorry.
I'm sorry! My family It's over,norman.
We're gonna get you some help.
It's over.
Let's go.
Get up.
Jordan? Did i do that? Is this my fault? No,kiddo.
No way.
They were gone before we even got the case.
We knew he would hurt his family.
We just didn't know that he already had.
I don't I'm not sure i can do this job.
That's ok.
There's nothing wrong with that.
"there's no tragedy in life "like the death of a child.
Things never get back to the way they were.
" President dwight eisenhower.
You all right? I will be.
Hey,you guys ever notice how the trip home always seems to go so much faster? That's because the tailwinds are in our favor.
No,i meant 'cause-- anybody want to get something to eat? - Not really.
- You? No,not really.
There's someone in the b.
a.
u.
room,guys.
- What are you doing here? - JJ.
Garcia said you guys were on your way back tonight.
I thought you could use a surprise.
I thought i gave you strict orders to get this place out of your head for a while.
My bad.
I couldn't help myself.
Here.
I heated it up.
Room temp.
Right? I just realized, with all that we do and see in this room, it never smiles.
I wanted at least one good memory to hold on to.
Excuse me,kid.
Um,jj,uh Can i? Of course.
Ok,you gotta hold his head up.
Careful,careful.
- I got it,i got it.
I got it.
- No,you don't got it.
You're smothering him.
Look,what's he doing? What's he doing? He is smiling at derek morgan.
- Gas.
- Gas.
Give me that.
Hey,little man.
You're smiling.
Yes.
We miss you.