Amy! Most of us have done extensive post-graduate work in areas such as abnormal psychology and sociology, As well as intensive study of relative case work and existing literature.
But that's after selection to the unit.
First you have to be an agent,work in the field,and that's what we're here to talk about.
For that,the academics are wide open.
Everyone in this room,once you graduate,regardless of your course study, Is eligible to apply to the f.
b.
i.
What did you study? Criminal justice.
But sports appreciation was all full up at my community college.
I hold doctorates in chemistry,mathematics,and engineering, As well as b.
a.
s in psychology and sociology.
what is he talking about? How old are you? Uh,i'm 27.
As of last month,i turned 27.
I'm--i'm also completing an additional b.
a.
in philosophy.
Which reminds me that i have a joke.
How many existentialists does it take to screw in a light bulb? Don't.
one to change the light bulb and one to observe how it symbolizes an incandescent Beacon of subjectivity in a netherworld of cosmic nothingness.
Um,an existentialist would-- ok,before he does his quantum physics knock-knock joke-- Do we have any other questions about opportunities in the f.
b.
i.
? Did you ever shoot anybody? I'm going to present this information to the team,and if they're interested,i'll call you.
If your team is interested? It's not a matter of interest.
You just said "interested.
" detective,that's not quite what i meant.
Is it that it's only one victim,not enough bodies for you? Not at all.
My vic's aren't covered in peanut butter and decapitated? They only need to be certain at they can help.
They sure as hell couldn't hurt.
That's actually not true,sir.
To take focus away from your investigation to build a profile could be a waste of your time And resources if you're already on the right track.
The girl's been dead 3 months.
And you feel like if you don't do something to help her,no one will.
The mom calls me 3 times a day.
I've been there.
Chicago p.
d.
trust me,i get it.
If there is something we can do to help you,we will.
Cell number's on the report.
I'm supervisory special agent derek morgan.
I'll call you personally.
We'll see.
You really need to be careful how you phrase things-- What was that? Excuse me? I'll call you personally? I'm the liaison.
You can call if it-- and you didn't need to come in here and take over my consultation like that.
It was your first solo.
I was simply trying to help you.
Well,from now on,supervisory special agent morgan,if i need your help,i'll ask.
You're welcome,agent todd.
- Thank you so much.
- Oh,you're welcome.
Thank you.
Bye.
You do know we want them to actually join the bureau? What? We want these kids to think it's a cool place to work.
I understand that,yeah.
Existentialism? Existentialism is-- Yes? That was a funny joke.
What do you mean? Yeah,to sigmund freud.
I tell them i shouldn't-- they keep on sending me here.
I don't know why.
- Because you're young.
- Young? Dr.
Reid? Wouldn't they sit in the dark and hope that the bulb decided to light again? Excuse me? An existentialist would never change the bulb.
He would allow the darkness to exist.
Yeah,that's pretty good.
I'm professor rothschild.
It was a brilliant presentation.
Brilliant.
You're a remarkably effective recruitment tool.
The f.
b.
i.
is very lucky to have you.
Thank you for saying that.
- May i show you something? - Yeah,of course.
It's all right here.
I don't understand.
What--what are these? Homicide? The bodies have never been found.
Not a fingernail,not a hair fiber.
Acid is a very tidy way of disposing of something.
Acid? Are you saying that you killed these women? There is still time to save the others,though.
Others? What do you mean? In a bit less than 9 hours,5 other people are going to be dead.
Unless,you can find a way to save them.
proudly presents sync:ßÇÈâÈâ Season04 Episode08 Masterpiece F.
B.
I.
, "Let us consider that we are all insane.
It will explain us to each other.
It will unriddle many riddles.
" Mark twain.
You're my boss,correct? Excuse me? - I report to you.
- That's right.
Has my job performance been to your satisfaction,sir? It seems fine.
And if it weren't to your satisfaction,you'd tell me? I can promise you that.
Because i can do this job.
I'm sorry,has somebody suggested that you can't? Have they? Not to me.
Thank you,sir.
What's wrong with agent todd? I haven't really spent a lot of time with her.
Something's bothering her.
I'll keep an eye on her.
You wanted to see me? Yes.
The houston case.
I'm missing the coroner's supplemental for victim 3.
That's supposed to come in this afternoon.
I just turned that in last night.
When do you sleep? Get me that supplemental so i can close the case.
- Yes,sir.
- Thank you.
hey,dave.
Reid and i were just approached by some guy here with photos that he claims are 7 women he killed.
These pictures have all been manipulated in some way that you can't really see what they are.
But he said he killed them? So far? There are 5 more live victims somewhere that we can save in 9 hours.
Is this guy for real,dave? Is a confessor,wannabe? I don't think so,hotch.
I get a hit off him.
Something hinky.
I'm bringing him in.
Ok,what can i do? I'm sending shots of the photos to garcia to start looking over.
I'll let her know to expect them.
I'll see you in about 45 minutes.
What is this? Do not forget a word he says the rest of the time we have him.
It's obviously tank girl.
Tank girl? Absolutamundo.
Is she even a good guy? Um,"a," she's not a guy at all.
Big plus.
B,she is all about wild hair dye,flatulence,nose picking,spitting, explosive vomiting,Occasional random sex,and more than occasional drunkenness.
And she has a tank.
Her very own tank.
And that,mon ami,is girl power.
Superman can fly.
Garcia.
Uh,thank you for the help with the,uh,stuff thing.
You don't have to lie,kevin.
Kevin,if she's not busy,you can visit.
Right,sir,sorry.
Garcia,rossi's sending you some photos.
I need you to analyze them,see if you can find anything identifiable.
They're possible homicide victims.
Possible? Long story,most of which i don't know yet.
- But the clock may be ticking.
- Yes,sir.
- Kevin.
- Yes,sir? She's busy now.
Oh,right,right.
Sorry.
Find something,garcia.
There may be 5 more victims out there.
Yes,sir.
So you said you're a professor at strayer? No.
You didn't? No.
I mean,you did introduce yourself as professor rothschild,right? Your degree in philosophy surprises me,dr.
Reid.
It doesn't fit with mathematics and engineering.
I kind of like it because there's no right or wrong answers.
Without right or wrong,how would we recognize perfection? Is this fun for you? Excuse me? Are you having fun? It's quite a bit more complicated than that.
What do you mean? You wouldn't understand.
Try me.
I read your books,david.
You're not of the intellectual capacity to grasp what's going on here.
If you're trying to piss me off,it's not gonna work.
But if you killed 7 women without leaving a trace of evidence,why turn yourself in? Imagine what the world would have missed if da vinci never showed his work.
Hey,how's it going? Why? Um,it's just a question.
I'm sorry.
I just Um,jordan,as the last person to join this team, i know how overwhelming all of this can be.
It really does get easier.
I'm not exactly sure if that's a good thing,though.
I'm gonna manifest happiness and calm for the rest of the day.
Happiness and calm? At the b.
a.
u.
? That's--good luck with that.
Oh,did you need something? Oh,yeah.
I'm waiting for a supplemental from the houston field office so i can closeout a report.
If you could just let me know when it gets here.
An internal report wouldn't come through me.
Really? - Thanks for checking up on me.
- Yeah,ok.
Well,if you need anything,i'm around.
Earlier this morning,police were contacted and informed that kaylee robinson, Who ran a daycare center out of her home,had been abducted along with 4 children.
When a parent arrived at 9:30 this morning to drop off her child,she discovered the door What's going on? He said there were 5 more victims we could save? A woman was abducted this morning in loretto,virginia.
She runs a home daycare center.
She had 4 children with her.
- They're all missing.
- All five.
Are those the 5 more? Are you pissed off yet,david? It's not your fault,you know.
Your iq is your iq.
It's not education,david,it's genetics.
What's this? I need to explain what a pendant is? What does it mean? Mean? It's just something i found at a fair.
Sit down.
You have the right to remain silent.
Anything you say can be used against you.
You have the right to have an attorney present.
If you cannot afford an attorney,one will be appointed for you.
- Do you understand your rights-- - genetics is the key to everything,david.
If you're not born with the right-- - do you understand your rights? - Perfectly.
I can have a lawyer.
No,thank you.
Some games are just intended to be played by higher intellects.
Harming a person weaker than you doesn't take any special ability.
Neither does slamming your fist down on a table.
But we all must do what we must do.
Bring dr.
Reid back with you.
I never have any normal fans.
This guy loves the attention.
He has a god complex.
Sooner or later he'll give up something important about kaylee and the kids.
Guys like him always do.
Before he hurts them? We need a button to push.
The 7 original homicides could give us some leverage.
He says we'll never find any evidence so he has nothing to worry about on them.
He made of point of saying there are no bodies,no physical evidence.
We just have to show that a crime was committed.
We can do that circumstantially.
We need to identify the original 7 women.
Going back in there with names just might shake him up.
How do we do that? Reverse profiling.
Learn everything we can about him and his methods And then profile it back to what kind of victim he would choose and from where.
From the unsub to the victim.
Ok,ok.
Get this.
Hurry,hurry,hurry.
Go,go,go.
Come on with me.
Get to a mask.
Hold your breath.
Hold your breath.
I went through vicap.
There are literally thousands of open missing women cases across the country.
It's not the entire country,though.
Kaylee was abducted at 9:30 this morning.
He had time to take them somewhere,hide them,and make it to fredericksburg 2 hours later.
He'd need a place with a lot of privacy to hide 5 victims.
- A house.
- He's local.
He was late for the presentation.
You know,it was more like 2.
He got there around noon,which puts him somewhere around that radius.
Garcia,work up a map.
We need the farthest point he could have taken kaylee from loretto And still gotten back to fredericksburg by noon.
Shouldn't be too hard.
All right,what do we know so far? He's obsessively neat and clean.
He did research on reid and me at least.
He's abducted 5 people,and then gets to a scheduled recruitment session at a specific time.
That's extensive pre-planning.
Did you find anything in those pictures,garcia? I can't even positively say they're dead.
What about hair color? All the ones that show hair,they appear to be brunettes.
So is kaylee.
I'll start there.
Brunettes from central virginia that are missing.
Ident got zip on his prints.
He's not in any system.
He's a ghost.
All right,if he hasn't been fingerprinted,he hasn't been arrested.
Which also means he hasn't had a passport,driver's license,or been in the military.
Never been a teacher,either.
You have to be fingerprinted to be a teacher.
So he's a professor who doesn't teach.
What kind of professor doesn't teach? A researcher? Someone on a grant,maybe.
a grant would give him the time.
There must be some sort of central grant database.
I can't imagine the government just handing out money and not-- I'll look into it.
From past conversations,we know he's a narcissist and seemingly remorseless.
Psychopath.
You know,we can eliminate a lot of these open missing persons Cases if we could just figure out how he met them.
Jordan,contact the loretto p.
d.
and get us invitation to consult on the kaylee robinson case.
Be nice to them.
They don't have to let us.
And then you and morgan go down there and find out what you can.
Let's go.
Prentiss,i need you to do something for me.
Anything.
What's our strategy going to be in there with the interrogation? You're not gonna be in the room.
What do you mean? That's what he wants.
He wants to play with you.
We have to knock him off his game.
That's all we have right now.
He's right.
Ok,how far could he have gone from loretto and make it back to fredericksburg by noon? There must be some sort of mathematical equation to do this.
Should have paid more attention in algebra.
Note to self,get dr.
Reid in here asap.
INCOMING E-MAIL What the? Golden rat? Oh,no.
Where's dr.
Reid? Busy.
You have something going on more important than me? My dry cleaning is more important than you.
That's very,very hostile.
I think you're just a big-mouth wannabe who doesn't have the guts to do anything at all about this.
Well,then i guess i'm free to go.
I didn't spend the last 5 years of my life working on a masterpiece Just to fold to a bad bluff,especially to someone who doesn't even have a hand to play.
Agent prentiss,this is professor rothschild.
May i? A god like you doesn't have a problem with women,does he? Do i make you nervous? It's ok,agent.
I think we have everything we need to know.
This is not a man who can confront a woman on equal footing.
He sneaks up on them.
Gets them from behind.
Blitz attacks.
The original 7 victims,oh,they were alone when they came up missing.
They had a routine,and he watched them.
Hiding in the weeds like a snake.
Like A coward.
That was a waste of precious time.
Oh,it's all part of the game now,isn't it? You think you know what game you're plang,david? You aren't even able to grasp what questions to ask.
Such as? How about asking what the rules are,david? Rules? and then there were four.
I told you that in less than 10 hours another 5 people would be dead.
I never said they would die at the same time.
It's ok.
I wonder which one it was-- the woman or one of those precious babies.
You have to know the rules to play the game,david.
Every 2 hours,one of them will die.
Chelsea! In the end,they will all be gone.
Chelsea,honey! Is there something else i need to know? Only that i'm rooting for you David.
it just popped up on the screen.
It's them.
There are only 3 children.
There were four when i went to go get you.
What is this on their faces? they look like gas masks.
Why would you fill a place with gas and then provide gas masks? Well,maybe the gas serves another purpose.
Such as? Well,look how evenly they're spaced out.
And the hoses are stretched as far as they can go without coming off.
The masks are to keep them in specific positions.
He said one of them is already dead.
One of the five.
- There are only 3 children.
- Is this them? an anonymous site emailed to me.
He said one will die every When he said 10 hours,i just assumed-- it's a chess game,he's 2 moves ahead.
Let's not get diverted.
How we doing with the seven missing women? So far,i've got 39 missing brunettes in central virginia.
Ok,30 years old like kaylee.
Narcissists tend to be extremely preferential.
- 28.
- he said he's been working on this for 5 years.
Over the last 5 years,17.
All right,if he thinks he's going to jail for even one of the original 7 homicides, Maybe he'll tell us where the rest of them are and give himself some deal room.
How long do we have until the next one? One hour,48 minutes.
Dave,can i speak to you for a second? How do you think it's going in there? All right.
Do you feel like you're making progress? Some.
I was thinking maybe we should give reid a shot.
You think he's smarter than me? No.
Intelligence is just part of the profile.
We're not talking about intelligence.
We're not changing in midstream,hotch.
I have a rapport.
This is my interview.
Ok.
Let me know if there's anything we can do.
Thanks,ma'am,we're around the corner.
The husband and the local p.
d.
are all at the crime scene.
- They're waiting for you.
- Us.
- What? - Us.
They're waiting for us.
You told that detective this morning that you would present his case to the team, And if they were interested,you would call him.
Look,interested wasn't the right word.
I get that.
I won't make that mistake again.
Jordan You are a member of this team.
There is no "they.
" It's "we.
" It's important for you to know that.
Do you know that i was born with an extra y chromosome? So? You don't know what that means? It doesn't mean anything.
It means I was born to be a killer.
Now that's funny.
Oh,no,no,no.
Don't pretend you don't know what i'm talking about.
I have an extra y,it makes me a killer.
That's junk science; a joke.
It was debunked years ago.
So you don't believe that killing is genetic? It's not a matter of me believing it.
It isn't true.
Killing someone or not killing someone is a choice.
If those people die,it's because you chose to make it happen.
Margaret peters,another gloucester point.
Disappeared in 2006 on her way to work.
Last seen at the coffee shop she went to every morning.
Check.
That's number six.
We need one more.
Husband? I'll go talk to him.
You want me to,um I'll be fine.
Right.
All these toys were left just like this? We didn't move them.
Husband doesn't know anything.
He was at work.
Doors were found open when somebody tried to drop another child off.
These kids are 6 years old,right? All four of them.
It's just an odd pattern for kids to leave toys in.
Mean anything to you? Not to me.
Ricky,ricky,look at me! Run all the way here for me.
Can you do that? Ok? Come on! Ok,come on! Run,run! Run,run,run! Stay,stay,stay.
She put herself closest to the end,farthest from the camera.
Why? Maybe she knows something we don't,like she doesn't have a lot of time.
Let's continue.
Uh,lindsay connor.
She was last seen when she stepped out to have a cigarette while having a blown tire fixed.
Doesn't sound like something routine.
Lisa mcdaniel,saluda,went missing early 2008 while on her daily jog.
Oh,she fits.
That's seven,including kaylee,that makes 8.
They're all incredibly beautiful.
Almost unnaturally.
What are the chances that three out of our seven victims are from the same town? What's the population of saluda? Middlesex county is small,but it's near water.
A lot of people have boats there and weekend homes.
And two from gloucester point.
Morgan just sent this to me from the robinson house.
Without right or wrong,how would we recognize perfection? Perfection.
Analytical minds such as ours Does that mean something? Dr.
Reid I know where to find them.
garcia,can you put the map of virginia up on screen? It's an irrational number known as "phi.
" It's based on the ratio of line segments to each other and of the whole.
It's called the golden ratio.
Golden rat-- that's the web address,goldenrat.
Net.
It's a ratio found all through life.
In fact,many people that we find conventionally attractive are proportioned based on that ratio.
He,uh,he made a reference to leonardo da vinci,remember this? Da vinci used it in a lot of his paintings.
A matter of fact,the last supper-- Reid,reid,how do we find them? The whole concept is represented by this pendant, Including the logarithmic spiral created by using a fibonacci sequence.
Follow me on this.
- You can manipulate this image,right? - Tell me what you need.
Pull up all the towns that the missings are from.
Wonderful.
We had one in richmond.
One in dinwiddie,then two in gloucester point, and three in saluda,and finally fibonacci series.
Each number added to the number before it.
It's what his ticks mean.
He's subconsciously counting off the fibonacci sequence in his head over and over again.
Now geometrically,it can be expressed as a spiral.
It's called a logarithmic spiral.
Can you put the spiral up on the map? Thanks.
Ok,now flip it 180 degrees.
Now make it bigger.
Bigger,just a little bit bigger.
Stop,stop,stop.
The pendant is like a key.
Chester,virginia.
You're sure? With his level of obsession with these numbers,the ratio will have permeated his entire life.
If we took a city map of chester,the location where kaylee And her children are being held will follow one of these points on that map as well.
The ratio works with any scale at all.
Morgan and todd are closer.
Call them and tell them to get to chester.
I'm gonna get a chopper ready.
Reid and prentiss,get a city map and you're with me.
There's still something Bugging me about this.
- Chester,virginia.
- What? The whole team is going there.
I see.
They'll be there before 4:00; before the next deadline.
You lose.
Explain something to me-- this is all about a geometric pattern? Phi is much more than a geometric pattern,david.
Killing all those women-- kaylee robinson,the first seven? You killed them because they were beautiful? You mean hypothetically? Well,i'm just trying to understand this math thing.
All animals desperately need a way to detect others of their species.
Dogs have scent,dolphins have sound.
Golden ratio is a subconscious identifier of perfect humanness.
If i had done all these things,it wouldn't be because they were beautiful.
It would be because they were perfect examples of humanity.
Because they're human? Hypothetically speaking.
This doesn't make any sense to me.
Killing a human because they're human? Do you know what homo sapiens sapiens actually means,david? Its literal translation? No.
Man,wise,wise.
Think about that.
We named ourselves doubly wise.
We are twice as wise as every other creature on the planet.
The hubris,the arrogance.
Humans are a blight.
We should all be eradicated.
You hate humanity? Every bit as much as you do.
I don't hate humanity.
I told you,i read all of your books.
It's in there,every one of them.
Your hatred.
Your first book,chapter 3,page 89, all fibonacci numbers.
"the first time i saw one of william grace's victims, "i knew i was looking at the residue of pure evil.
"i would never again feel completely safe around a human being.
" This is all about my books? Like you,i know exactly what human beings are capable of.
I can hate the things people do,but have pity for who they are.
Pity? You pity them? Any man who feels that the only way to have power or purpose is to hurt others deserves pity.
Your fifth book,chapter 13,page 144.
"i know it makes little sense to try and deter violence with more violence.
"But deterrence is not why i believe in the death penalty.
"there are some people that are so violent,so evil, "that society has no choice but to be done with them.
"Vengeance is something that society needs "from time to time,if,for no other purpose, "than to keep the rest of us sane.
"Where is the pity?" Sir,they found the house.
You were right.
They're going inside now.
Thank you.
Vengeance keeps us sane.
What a fascinating statement.
You may have your vengeance, as i am about to haveMine.
What? They're never going to make it out of that house,david.
It was never about that perfect woman or those wonderful children.
It is about your team.
Your merry band of five.
They complete my sequence.
Garcia,get hotch on the phone,now! It's too late,david.
The minute they stepped into that house,they were dead.
I knew if i kept prodding you that you would rise to my challenge.
Hotch isn't answering.
- Try morgan.
- I knew That you would insist on being in the room alone with me; that you would try to beat me.
I knew you would send them all out there.
No,nothing.
Try prentiss or reid! It's a trap,stop them! But you're not just filled with hatred,david.
You're also filled with arrogance.
Hubris,just like every other human being.
Just like me.
I can't reach anyone! Try again! They're never going to answer.
You lose.
Why? What did i ever do? William grace.
The man you called the face of pure evil.
My brother.
My life ended the day you arrested him.
Every time people talked about william grace, they always talked about his parents and his brother henry.
Because no one could believe that anyone that evil could possibly hide in the darkness.
Surely someone must have seen,someone must have known-- Surely his own brother.
I had a fianc\,david.
A beautiful woman.
A perfect woman.
She sent the ring back to me.
She said she was afraid to give it to me in person.
She was afraid of me.
She was a brunette.
So then i started getting these thoughts,these ideas, these images inside my head.
I couldn't--i couldn't escape them.
And then i realized, my brother hadn't been alone in the darkness.
I shared the same genetics you so casually dismiss.
I started a second life.
No one knew,but something Was missing.
I couldn't figure it out.
And then David rossi,the man that ruined my life.
And suddenly,i knew what it was that was missing.
Because you Have written it.
Vengeance.
Vengeance.
You murdered all those women just because of me? That's right.
I killed 12 people 'Cause of you.
You took my family.
I take yours.
Did you get all that? Every word,boss.
Well,make copies before we give it to the u.
s.
attorney.
This might make a pretty good teaching aid.
Yes,sir.
Teaching? Yeah.
I teach interrogation at the fbi academy.
Hotch Garcia said i got it right? Yeah,about everything.
We found the acid tanks around back.
The acid would have covered the whole area outside the room.
There were spigots everywhere.
The entry was booby-trapped.
And what about kaylee and the kids? They're fine.
Oh,they're fine.
You were right about them.
They were just one of the decoys.
That was reid who figured out his obsession with those numbers.
He wasn't about to kill That's not in the pattern.
You get your confession? Took some doing.
Thank you.
You'd be charged with kidnapping,but kaylee and the kids,they're all safe.
You'll only face murder charges on the original seven women.
With no evidence? Yeah.
You,uh,you mentioned that when we first met, that we would never be able to get you on those.
But i think you'll discover that the videotaped confession has the power to move a lot of jurors.
You waited until i turned my back,didn't you,henry? Just like you did with those women.
Don't give me a reason to hurt you! And one more thing-- I'm going to be there when they strap you down for that lethal injection.
And just before they hit the plunger, I'm going to lean in really close and tell you to say hello to your scumbag brother.
First solo case.
They don't always turn out so well,do they? I wish.
I was out of line with you this morning.
No,you weren't.
You were right.
I should have never jumped in like that.
And it won't happen again.
So what do you think? What do i think about what? - The other case.
- What case? Told that detective that you'd take a look at it and give him a call.
Jordan,are you serious? I've been a little busy.
The man is waiting for a phone call.
You told him you'd call him personally.
Am i ever gonna catch a break with you? I can dial the number if you'd like.
I mean,aren't you supervisory special agent morgan? - This is going to be interesting.
- Yeah.
I want you to speak when you mean it.
That's what i want you to do.
Sir.
"man must evolve for all human conflict " a method which rejects revenge,aggression,and retaliation.
" The foundation of such a method is love.
" Martin luther king,jr.