****** Well,are you nna tell him or not? If you think you can live with this on your conscience.
That's not how it works,sweetie.
Yeah,you can put it out of your head.
It'll just go to your heart.
Well,then it'll go somewhere else.
I don't know.
Your liver,your pancreas.
Why do you think so many people get cancer? That's how it works.
That's what guilt does.
It makes people sick.
I'm not gonna tell you what to do.
Well,I'm sorry that it came off that w,but you can understand my position.
I'm friends with both of you.
No,of course I'm not gonna tell him,janet.
I love you,but I'm sorry,a couple of glasses of wine does not justify-- 3--whatever.
Hey,I'm coming to a bad spot on 7.
I might lose you.
Hello? Janet? Great.
Hey there! Penelope is hoping the migraine she woke up with this morning Goes away in time for the small wonder marathon tonight.
- You decent? - Never.
Look at you.
Did somebody die? - No.
- B.
a.
u.
Yearbook photo? No,I have a job interview.
Hey,rock star,you up for that systems promotion? No,no.
A friend of mine is a headhunter for the nsa.
Uh,they're looking for analysts versed in cyber warfare.
Really? That sounds exciting.
Oh,it is.
Yeah,the job is totally cutting edge.
Yeah,it sounds like it.
Are you sure you're gonna want to make the commute to fort mead every day? actually,it's a-- it's an overseas position.
Where overseas? I can't say.
It's classified.
Are we breaking up right now? Uh,no.
No.
Uh--uh--they haven't hired me yet.
It--it's my final interview.
Final? How long have you known about this? A few weeks.
I didn't want to say anything to you until it was real.
Ok.
Ok.
And And this is what you want? I'm not sure.
I mean,the long-distance thing would be rough.
Yeah,it would be,considering you can't even tell me where you're going.
Well,i--i could if you applied with me.
I mean,they need other people.
Leave the b.
a.
u.
? Just think about it? My head hurts,and jj just brought in a case.
I need to get back to work.
An unsub that kills with his car.
I haven't seen that before.
Neither have the police in bend,oregon.
Which is why they need our help.
Two victims in the last 12 days.
First was hit while on a morning jog-- maria delgado,23.
The second was a stranded motorist,shannon makely,43.
And what makes the locals think that they were connected? Well,for one thing,they were both backed over after the initial impact.
No accident there.
They matched treads at both scenes.
Large wheels,all-terrain.
Wounds also indicate a raised bumper,so they're thinking large suv or truck.
Do they know the model or make? Uh,tires aren't factory iue.
They could be on a number of different models.
No witnesses to either incident? A hit-and-run is loud,draws attention.
Somebody usually sees something.
Both victims were attacked in secluded areas.
Serial killers have been known to become rather attached to their vehicles.
Bittaker and norris even have theirs a nickname.
Murder mac.
Bittaker and norris were sexual sadists.
There's no sign of torture here.
It sounds like thrill kills.
Opportunistic.
Easy targets randomly selected.
With this type of impact,the vehicle shouldn't be hard to pick out of a lineup.
Yeah,there should be significant front-end damage.
Somehow I don't think it's gonna be that easy.
proudly presents sync:ßÇÈâÈâ Season04 Episode23 Roadkill "I'm not sure about automobiles.
"with all their speed forward,they may be a step backward in civilization.
" Booth tarkington.
Well,I think it's safe to assume our unsub is male.
I agree with you,given what we know about aggressive driving and road rage.
And the fact that men ha an unnatural bond with their cars.
- That is true.
- Wait a minute.
I don't know about unnatural.
I once dated a guy who washed his car more than he washed his hair.
A nice car needs love.
And a woman doesn't? I'm not qualified to answer that.
I'm just saying,big car--it's phallic.
- So he's compensating? - Or overcompensating.
- Impotent? - Possibly.
If the unsub sees himself as physically defective, The car not only gives him the power and control he otherwise lacks, but it also serves as a shield.
A way to avoid physical contact? Power and control,female victims-- that almost reads like a rape profile.
Vehicular rape.
Rape and thrill kill are two very different profiles.
What does the victimology tell us? Nothing yet.
Shannon makely was a white,married,43-year-old commities trader, Maria delgado was a 23-year-old hispanic grad student,competitive tri-athlete.
So far,gender's our only link.
Hopefully the crime scenes will tell us more.
****** She lived a little outside of town,was on her way home from work when she broke down.
So she breaks down way back there and she gets out and starts walking.
Why not call for help? No service.
He made a complete stop here,then hit the gas.
Full stop in the middle of the road? Take it there's not a lot of traffic out here.
Not on this stretch.
Not at that time of day,at least.
Done working by 3:00 in the afternoon.
Broker.
Specialized in foreign markets.
Time difference made for some odd hours.
What are you thinking about,rossi? What are the odds she breaks down right here? No phone,no traffic,no witnesses,nowhere to run.
Perfect place for an ambush.
Not a very popular jogging area.
Aren't too many people who can take that hill coming up here.
Well,she was a tri-athlete.
We figured she jogged in off the main road,heading for the trail up here.
Assailant drove in behind her and ran her down right here.
A woman jogging alone? No,she would have known if someone was tailing her.
So maybe he was already here.
What's the story with all this equipment? Construction stalled out months ago.
No reason for anyone to be up here.
Nice and private.
It's the ideal spot to run somebody down without being seen.
A little convenient.
Too convenient.
What if it was her? What if she were the reason he was up here? You don't think this was a random attack.
Oil.
He was lying in wait.
He may have specifically targeted these women.
That takes thrill kill off the table.
Because the murders were planned in advance? Yeah.
This type of stalking behavior indicates a personal motive.
Bend****** There's a reason he chose these victims.
So you think he knows them? Well,he knew their work schedules,jogging routes,drive patterns.
That would explain how he knew where to strike.
It explains the delgado girl.
She was on a run.
But he couldn't have known shannon makely's car was gonna break down out there.
Did you look at her car? Guys at impound said the water pump blew.
They said it's a common enough problem.
Maybe we should take a closer look.
Why don't you head over there,let me know what you find out.
Shannon makely's husband is here.
I just want it to make sense.
But this,i We may be able to ma some sense out of it with your help.
Do you recognize that woman? No.
Should i? She was the first victim.
We're trying to determine if she was connected to your wife in some way.
Connected? We believe he may have been following them,gathering some sort of information.
Did shannon ever mention noticing anyone? No.
Did you ever notice anyone out of the ordinary in your neighborhood, Maybe someone who was walking or driving by the house repeatedly? No.
What about a truck or a large suv? Thursday,I was expecting a package.
I kept checking the street.
There was a truck parked a couple of houses down.
I didn't recognize it.
Could you see anyone inside? I couldn't tell.
The windows were blacked out.
Tinted? Yeah,only all the way around,like you see with limousines.
Do you think that you would recognize the truck if you saw it again? Maybe.
FBI****** How's it coming,gil? It's coming.
These roof sections are brutal.
Yeah.
Maybe you want to take an early day.
- Don't I wish.
- Look,I can smell the booze,man.
I can tell bert you went home sick.
- But-- - I can handle it.
You're sliding,man.
Mistakes,missed deadlines.
Is everything ok? We figured it was the water pump because it was pretty much melted.
But we didn't figure on this.
Car's pretty new.
That wouldn't be normal wear and tear,would it? No.
Rest of the line's in good condition.
Someone punctured it.
You can tell from the smooth edge.
How did they do it? Probably reached a blade right through the grille.
Penknife.
Something like that.
They wouldn't have even had to pop the hood.
And if she drove away without water in the radiator,it explains the overheating.
It explains the pump,too.
Could somebody possibly gauge how far she could have traveled with the car in this condition? Someone who knows cars could make an educated guess,sure.
Thank you.
Appreciate it.
Sabotage.
He's more focused than we thought.
Well organized,highly motivated.
By what,though? What do these women have in common? Different ages,appearance,social class.
He's not hunting a specific type.
Their only connection is the unsub.
There has to have been contact before the attacks.
But we profiled a guy who's afraid of contact.
The truck's a shield.
Maybe the contact's incidental.
There's something he perceives in their exchange.
Something about his perception triggers his fixation.
Could be the way she looks at him,something she says, or even something as trivial as what she's wearing.
Whatever it is,the victims have no idea what they set in motion.
These are all ford models.
The grilles are kind of like you described.
Yeah,I guess.
It didn't have that emblem,though.
And no hood ornament.
Nothing like that.
I understand this is hard,but this really will help us.
I'll keep looking.
How's it going? Well,we're down to an older model,black,american made.
Sounds like he debadged the truck so nobody could i.
d.
him.
I can start a list from dmv matching what we've got.
A list like that's gonna kill a lot of trees.
He's right.
The truck's only gonna get us so far.
What we need to do is build on the profile.
Well,he's mechanically inclined.
He certainly knows his away around an engine block.
And he can pull a dent,too,if he's fixing the body damage to his truck.
Both victims were killed during pri office hours.
It means he has a flexible work schedule.
Or he might not be working at all.
Stalking someone,getting to know their schedule,it's a pretty serious time commitment.
And job loss is a classic stressor.
It's a start.
Look for men who are employed as mechanics,body shops, And look for those with criminal records-- Reckless driving and assault.
Two murders in two weeks? It's not much of a cooling-off period.
He's not gonna wait for another opportunity to present itself.
Now he'll create one.
Son of a-- great.
help me! Hold the elevator! Hold it! Impact nearly cut him in two.
His name is victor costella,podiatrist.
- He works in the building.
- Male victim.
So much for the vehicular rape theory.
He ran down from the level above to try to get away.
Initial collision was up there? Let's see it.
- This is the victim's car? - Yeah.
Why? Uh,excuse me for a second.
Garcia,I need you to look into something.
It's a reserved spot.
Unsub knew where he was gonna park,must have gotten here early and picked this spot right across.
- Somebody might have seen him waiting.
- Somebody did.
Talked to an x-ray tech on the third floor.
Noticed a truck when she arrived.
And he was inside it? Yeah,but she couldn't see him because of the tint.
So how did she know he was inside the truck? She said the window was cracked.
Occupant was smoking.
I don't suppose your people found any cigarette butts.
What time did the,uh,tech get in? Proper addict could kill a whole pack.
Did you ever smoke? I used to do a lot of things.
Bet you never did this.
- He field-stripped it.
- What is that? Something they teach soldiers to avoid leang traces in the field.
They squeeze out the filter,then ball up the surrounding paper.
Ok,so our guy could be ex-military.
We can get dna on this.
Maybe we'll get lucky,he's in the system.
If he's military,why would he choose a truck as his weapon? Maybe he drove a tank.
That's a good questi using a vehicle on the open road is one thing,but - This is close quarters.
- Yeah.
A truck is loud,it draws attention.
Plus he risked rendering it inoperable.
- Doesn't make any sense.
- It does to him.
He needs to kill this way.
I just don't know why.
Guys,I think I know what connects the victims.
All of the victims drove red 2-door coupes.
Don't you think that could be a coincidence? It's statistically significant.
We haven't been able to find any other common denominators.
If the unsub is targeting people because of their cars, Then his initial contact with them would have been on the road.
Exactly.
I spoke to the families about the victims' daily car travel,how they got to work,the gym.
There's one road all the victims have in common.
Route 7.
That mean something to you? Maybe we should take a drive.
Anyone living outside bend who commutes toward eugene uses route 7.
It's the most dangerous stretch of highway in the state.
They call it "suicide 7.
" These crosses represent accidents? Fatalities.
The fire chief put them up to remind drivers to be careful.
I'm assuming there's a lot of head-on collisions.
Either that or they go off the side.
Reid,you mentioned the possibility of a physical limitation, Something that kept the unsub from attacking in the traditional way.
Yeah,I was thinking about impotence,but we've ruled out sexual motivation.
What if he'd been involved in a crash? On this road.
If the unsub is disabled,it explains why he uses a truck.
It gives him power,mobility.
But what? The idea that he's avenging his own physical suffering speaks to a victim mentality that's inconsient with the profile.
Maybe it's not just about his own suffering.
wake up,honey.
Help me! As we speak,this profile and a description of the unsub's truck Are being released to state and national media.
In addition to what we already know, We believe the unsub is ex-military,most likely army or marines.
We also believe he's physically handicapped.
- From combat? - From an automobile accident.
An accident that may have occurred along route 7,where the unsub finds his victims.
And that has something to do with why he's going after red coupes? We believe that he holds the driver of a comparable vehicle responsible for his accident.
And this person is the object of his rage,but unable to confront them, He's taking revenge against a surrogate.
These boxes contain accident reports from a strip of route 7 between bend and eugene.
There's about 5 years' worth.
We're gonna need everyone you can spare to comb through them.
We've also compiled a list of local rehabilitation facilities Where the unsub may have gone to recover.
Use the profile as you canvass these places.
Remember,we're looking for a white male in his early 40s,former military Who may have sustained serious injury in a car accident.
Though only owners of red coupes have been targeted at this point, We're asking all the driving public to be vigilant on the road.
And if you know anyone who fits this description, Please contact the bend police department immediately.
Thank you.
Gil? I could use some help in here.
I've got bare feet here.
Could you maybe sweep up the glass? I think I have to go.
- What? - I'm sorry.
Where are you going? Damn it! Gil,wait! What's happening to you? How's dave doing? A few more possibles.
I'll take them.
Hotch.
Just got a walk-in.
His name's gil bonner.
What's his story? It's about the unsub's accident.
He says it's his fault.
It was late,and i'd spent all day in eugene with my mom.
She'd been sick.
I shouldn't have been driving.
But I just wanted to get home to see my little girl.
It was darker than usual.
I remember the moon was just a sliver.
Right outside the cascades,my phone started vibrating.
And when I went to reach for it,I knocked it off the far side of the seat, And it fell down by the door,and I thought I could reach.
And you took your eyes off the road? If couldn't have been for more than a few seconds.
But when I looked back up,there were lights and this horn was blaring.
And I swerved at the last second,and then iust Kept on going Without a scratch.
You'd gone into the oncoming lane? What happened to the other vehicle? Well,that's the thing.
It was in rearview mirror and then it was gone.
It vanished.
Why didn't you stop? It didn't seem real.
You're saying you just pretended it didn't happen? I guess if you tell yourself something for long enough You can make anything true.
Well,you're here now.
Tell us about thother vehicle.
It was the truck you're looking for.
How do you know that? When I saw the news It all made sense.
It's come back for revenge.
When did the accident occur? December '07.
The second saturday.
There are no accidents reported in december of 2007.
No.
That's No.
Maybe you have your dates wrong? It could have been november.
Uh,memories are kind of like puzzle pieces,and it's-- It's quite possible that in suppressing these for so long,you've sort of rearranged things.
How long was your mother sick? She died in january.
That much I know.
- He's ex-military,good with his hands,repairs.
- Ok,thanks.
****** Look,even with that description,you're talking about 5 years' worth of patients.
What if we could narrow it down to a 5-month window,between september '07 and january '08? What's this person done,exactly? Exactly? 3 murders.
And he's not gonna stop there.
Murders? You do realize the condition of our patients? A paraplegic can drive with the right rigging.
Is this about those hit-and-runs? There's something you should see.
He,uh,he left us about 4 months ago.
Didn't make the kind of progress that we'd hoped for.
Getting himself back in shape? No,physically,he-- he made great strides.
It was emotional issues.
Anger issues? Did he ever talk about getting even? You can look for yourself.
Ian coakley.
We have the patients write and draw daily.
Small tasks to help strengthen their hands.
Ian spent most of his time on those.
You had to know this guy was disturbed.
It's part of healing.
We encourage this kind of-- murder fantasy.
Grief can take on disturbing forms.
Red car.
They're all different,like he couldn't decide.
When his memory came back,it was Fluid.
So it changed,like his targets.
His mind was trying to find out the truth about what had happened.
We need the date of his accident.
September 28,2007,ian and sheila coakley crashed While driving home from napa valley going eastbound on route 7 around midnight.
It appeared their car was run off the road,flipped numerous times,no witnesses.
His wife was riding in the passenger seat.
She died at the scene.
Coakley survived.
Paramedics indicated spinal cord injury.
Morgan said he fractured his t6 and t7 vertebrae.
He's paraplegic.
That's not all.
He's a former light-wheel mechanic in the army national guard.
Does it say anything about a red car? No.
It says coakley suffered memory loss after the accident.
Short-term retrograde amnesia is common after a serious accident.
I think it's safe to say he remembers now.
- Do we have an address? - Yeah,garcia's working on that now.
Ok.
The house coakley and his wife bought was foreclosed on 10 months after his accident.
Well,there's gotta be a paper trail,then.
Yeah,and that trail leads to a land called nowhere.
Cashed some insurance checks during a stay at edelman house,but after he left,zilch.
Any relatives he could be staying with? No.
I tried that.
There's no family in the area.
My exquisitely educated guess is he's either squatting or subletting with cash.
What about his truck? He owns a '79 dodge d100.
He bought it used 10 years ago.
He's had to rebuild it several times now.
Parts can't be easy to find for a truck that old.
I smell what you're cooking,agent.
Checking auto suppliers in bend.
Yeah,rossi gets a fruit cup with lunch.
He's having the parts drop-shipped through syd's auto And sent directly to an address in southwest bend.
Clear! it's clear.
his truck is gone.
We're all clear here.
Get all your vehicles off this street,set up a perimeter.
If coakley comes back this way,we want to be ready for him.
Got it.
Come on.
- Let's get to work.
- Rossi.
Come on.
You want to see this.
Look at the grilles.
They still got blood on them.
He's been switching plates.
We should revise the bolo.
Hey,rossi,look at this.
Stalk central.
That right there's shannon makely.
Maria delgado jogging.
Victor costella.
They're all here.
So who's this guy? You think it's possible there are other victims we don't know about? I don't think so.
Garcia would have found them.
Then I think we've found his next target.
Hey,baby girl.
I need you to run a plate fast.
- Hey,garret.
- That's good.
Mrs.
Burke? Fbi.
We're looking for your husband.
Sorry,you just missed him.
What is this about? We think he may be in danger.
Can you reach him on his cell? No.
He's on a ride.
He doesn't take his phone with him.
A bike ride? Yes.
He's in a club.
He's on the open road.
Do they have a regular route? Um,saturdays-- uh,they do the prineville reservoir loop.
It's about a 50-mile round trip from here.
Please What is going on? We need you to tell us every road they take.
Hey,I thought you could use a hand.
Oh,thank you.
Have you heard anything from hotch? HOME****** Uh,they think they've located garret burke.
If they can bring him in,coakley has nowhere to go.
Well,he'll go somewhere.
Hopefully,going through this stuff will help us figure out where.
All of his wife's things.
He never unpacked them.
He never unpacked anything,as far as I can tell.
What do you think this means,living like this? I think it means he's stuck.
Hotch,we're on route 26 heading toward the reservoir.
I think we're about halfway around the loop.
So far no sign of him.
Copy that.
We're heading southbound on 20.
Hopefully we can hit route - Anything? - 9/26/07.
That was was 2 days before the crash? They were really happy.
Wait a second.
Hotch,you know how coakley was driving his wife's car on the night of the accident? It was a red coupe.
- Are you sure? - We have pictures.
What does it mean? - Maybe there was no other car.
- What? Think about it.
The make and model of his target car keeps changing.
Like he knows they aren't right.
And his doctor at the rehab facility called if fluid memory, But what if it was more than that? So if it's a single-car accident It was coakley's fault.
He was driving back from napa valley that night.
That's a long drive.
Fell asleep at the wheel.
Wouldn't be the first time.
The guilt of that would be overwhelming,the truth almost impossible to take.
So he's projecting blame.
A red coupe did cause the accident,and he was driving it.
Hold on! Are you hurt? - Can you move? - I'm ok.
Go.
You can't blame other people for what you've done,coakley.
Detective! Detective! You know the truth.
No one else needs to die.
It's not gonna help! There was no other red car,was there? No.
No.
Go! Go! Where the hell is he going,rossi? There's no outlet up here.
He's hemmed in.
No,don't do it,man.
I don't know about you,but I haven't had my bell rung like that in a long time.
No,I'm good,thanks.
Impressive group you travel with.
They are.
You knew what I said to coakley was gonna set him off.
Challenging a delusion like his can have unpredictable consequences.
Like driving off a cliff.
He made a choice.
Well,I'm not gonna lose any sleep over it if it's ok with you.
- Uh,i'll catch up with you.
- Ok.
Mr.
Bonner.
I got a message that you wanted to see me.
Yes.
Thanks for coming in.
I did so fact-checking.
You said the moon was just a sliver that night.
The new moon was on november 10,2007.
What else did you find? A man named william madlock was run off the road that night by a car that drifted into his lane.
No injuries? There was some damage to his car.
And you'll be held responsible for fleeing the scene.
A volkswagen? But it was a truck.
Was it? I think you've wanted to tell someone about this for a very long time.
And this case,that truck,gave you the excuse you needed.
Guilt's a powerfulhing.
You didn't hurt anyone,Mr.
Bonner.
Thank you.
Garcia is Contemplating a life of solitude and celibacy.
- Did you get the job? - No.
I'm sorry.
Only a Fool would hire somebody over you for that job.
Oh,no,they didn't hire anybody.
The position just - Went away.
- Went away? Yeah.
Apparently there was a security breach.
Someone hacked the project database,and the whole project was put on hold.
All that over a little network hack.
Well,you know,you can't be too careful.
You know how that goes.
Right.
Well It's probably blessing in disguise.
I mean With your delicate stomach,you wouldn't have been able to stand the food in karachi.
I never told you that it was in karachi.
Didn't you? Ok.
It's ok.
I could not have gone without you.
And I couldn't have gone with you.
- This place is my home.
- I know.
"the human voice can never reach the distance that is covered by the still,small voice of conscience.
" Mahatma gandhi.
Come on,daddy! Let's go home!