How are you feeling today? You let me smoke.
What more can I ask for? Most patients have a hard time coping with new surroundings.
They probably believe they'll be released.
I'm not so naive.
You don't believe you'll be getting out? Would you let me out? I'd like to talk about adam.
He's still missing.
So I've heard.
- Will you help us find him? - No.
Why not? What more do you need to hide? I'm not hiding anything.
And I think the better question would be,what are you looking for Dr.
Reid? I think you know what I'm looking for.
I want to hear you say it.
I am looking for adam.
Just because you caught me doesn't mean you'll find him.
You're not that smart.
This isn't about being smart.
This is out doing the right thing.
I did the right thing.
******* *********** Chandler,looks like I got the night off after all.
Yeah,what she don't know only makes it that much better.
Yeah,sounds like a plan.
Right.
I'm gonna change and i'll,uh I'll hit you back.
Hey,i saw you earlier,didn't i? My name's dan.
Adam.
Adam! Where's madison? I thought you were off.
Oh,she wasn't feeling well,so I sent her home.
Listen,we had another early checkout,so could you turn it over before you clock out? What,I'm a cleaning lady now? I'm your boss,and you'll be whatever I want you to be.
Ok.
What room? daniel keller,21,a junior at benjamin franklin university.
He was killed last night while spring breaking in south padre island.
c.
o.
d.
asphyxiation.
He was the second victim to be murdered there in the past 3 nights.
The first was william browder,also on spring break,c.
o.
d.
asphyxiation.
They were both sexually assaulted prior to death.
Men being raped and murdered on spring break? Well,that's a twist.
So far the deaths have been localized to one hotel.
The hudson street hotel.
Initially,the hotel was filled to capacity but lost 20% occupancy overnight.
We should get a list of everyone who works there.
There's a good chance one of them is the unsub,at the very least has interacted with him.
Yeah,gaia's already on that.
Both victims were discovered by hotel staff, the last after online checkout indicated the room had been vacated.
So he wanted the bodies discovered,and sooner rather than later.
Look at the way they're posed-- naked,cowering in the fetal position.
He's sending a message.
Something about this is important to him.
We just need to figure out what.
And we need to do it soon.
The police suspect the unsub could be another vacationing student, Though I'm not willing to rule out local involvement.
Makes sense.
If the killer is a student,they could be halfway across the country by the time we're onto them.
If he's a local,we could lose him as soon as his victim pool dries up.
Either way,we're almost out of time.
South padre spring break season ends this weekend.
proudly presents sync:ßÇÈâÈâ Season04 Episode20 Conflicted "light thinks it travels faster than anything.
"but it is wrong.
No matter how fast light travels," "it finds the darkness has always gotten there first and is waiting for it.
" Terry pratchett.
National media has picked up on the story.
We're gonna have to make a statement when we land.
We want to make people aware without obviously causing panic.
Stress hypervigilance,the whole buddy system,yeah,I'm all over it.
I just don't think anyone's gonna listen.
What do you mean? Come on.
Drunk college students don't exactly want to hear they shouldn't talk to strangers.
Right.
Was there any dna left on the scene? Uh,yeah.
Too much dna.
This portion of the garcia show will be brought to you by the letter "i" for icky.
The lab has recovered over as multiple guests create a cesspool of dna.
Also,there is no way to determine the exact time of "secretion" or to eliminate anyone actually working at the hotel.
Were you able to find any connection between the first two victims? No.
They grew up in different states, The went to colleges on opposite coasts I did the whole cross-reference credit card thing, couldn't make it connect.
- So the hotel's the only common denominator.
- Yeah.
And it should be noted that the first victim,william browder, wasn't exactly a registered guest.
Well,that's a popular thing to do.
I mean,youngsters do it all the time.
They rent a room,they pack in as many kids as possible to save costs.
We could be dealing with hundreds of unregistered guests.
We need to check every guest,whether they were on the books or not.
Male raping male.
So are we presing our unsub or victims could be gay? That's not necessarily true.
In male rape,sexual preference typically has less to do with the crime than the power And dominance the attacker feels from the act itself.
Still,it's a question we should ask the families when we interview them.
It could help us determine how the unsub met the victims.
We got a lot of work to do.
Emily,jj,and I will go to the local p.
d.
and start victimology.
The rest of you,there's your new home.
You must be the fbi.
David rossi.
These are agents morgan and reid.
Julie riley.
I'm the manager.
You were on duty when the latest body was discovered? That's right.
Did you happen to notice anyone out of the ordinary? I'm afraid not.
You see so many faces during the spring break,pretty soon they all start to blur.
We need to set up interviews with the rest of your staff as soon as possible, also talk to the hotel guests.
Of course.
How many cameras do you have on the property? Not enough.
We have all the main entrances and the garage covered.
But the hallways and the service tunnels aren't equipped.
Can you show us the room where the last body was found? Um,i'll start rounding up the rest of the staff for you to talk to.
Thanks.
No signs of struggle reported.
Everything seemed normal when housekeeping arrived.
Look at this.
Scratch marks on the footboard.
The victims were bound before the struggle gan.
Well,that would make sense.
Both victims were in pretty good shape.
Probly needed them tied up in order to control them.
The question is,was it consensual or was it coerced? Reese evans.
Agent hotchner.
These are agents prentiss and jareau.
Hello.
Well,thanks for being here.
If it's all right with you,we'd like to talk to the victim's friends and family as soon as possible.
Of course.
Michael browder,the father of the first victim has just arrived to claim his son's body.
And the second victim's girlfriend should be here within the hour.
Does,uh,mr.
Browder know the details of his son's murder.
Not everything.
I mean,there were certain matters I didn't want to bring up on the phone.
If you don't mind,we'd like to handle that ourselves.
We're gonna have to ask him a few difficult questions about his son.
Honestly,i have been dreading it all day.
- I'll talk to the girlfriend.
- Right this way.
So if I'm the unsub and it wasn't consensual,how does this work? You'd have to have a weapon.
A gun to the face means he doesn't scream out.
Look at the distance between where each of the arms were tied.
There's no way he could have tied that second hand himself.
Which means the unsub did it for him.
Which would be risky,because if he knew he was in danger and he saw the opportunity,he would take it.
Then why not drug him and then tie him up? Eliminate the risk.
The tox screen came back negative.
So it's either consensual or he has a partner.
- He's also learning fast.
- What do you mean? He hides the body in the closet and then indicates that the guest has checked out.
Which means when the housekeeper gets here everything looks normal And she starts cleaning,wiping everything down.
Erasing any fingerprints or dna which could have been left on the scene.
We need to talk to whoever cleaned this room.
Maybe they saw something that can tell us who was in here with dan keller.
Mr.
Browder,did your son have any history of drug abuse? Marijuana,methamphetamine,anything? None.
He w an athlete in high school and college.
Tested regularly.
Did he mention anything about meeting someone here in south padre? Old acquaintances? He came down with some friends from his school.
They wanted to blow off steam before finals.
Mr.
Browder,was your son gay? He had had sex with a man before he died.
Knowing whether or not it was consensual will help us determine how he was targeted.
Adam jackson? Your manager said we could find you up here.
Uh--i--i get migraines.
- You discovered the body last night? - Yeah.
Had you ever seen him before? Or noticed anyone he may have been with? I've never seen him before in my life.
Since I opened the closet,i can't get him out of my head.
Adam,what about the first victim,william browder? Have you ever seen him before? Never seen either of them.
Let me ask you this-- is there anything you remember about the room before you discovered the body? It might not seem like much,but the smallest detail could really help us a lot.
It looked pretty normal.
I mean,until I opened the closet door.
Did anything stand out about the body? Or,uh,for that matter,anyone at the hotel last night? No,man.
You seen one drunk frat guy,you seen 'em all.
Adam,i thought you said you didn't recognize him.
I didn't.
I just--that girl from corpus christi across the****** They walk around like they own the place,you know? They think they can do whatever they want.
How long have you worked here? - Appreciate your time.
- Thank you.
- Can I ask you a question? - Yeah.
You've seen bad stuff,right? I have,yeah.
How long before you can close your eyes without it being there? I'm afraid I still don't know.
Morgan and reid are finishing the interview.
What did you learn? It doesn't look like either of our victims was gay.
Dan keller's girlfriend describes him as overtly sexual and aggressive towards women.
It caused quite a few problems in their relationship.
And his friends said they were out partying prior to his death, And he was definitely willing to overlook the fact that he had a girlfriend.
Does that match with what you found at the scene? Yes and no.
What do you mean? The victims were both big guys,yet there were no signs of a struggle.
We profile it as either being consensual or The unsub had a partner.
Sounds right.
What's your hesitation? - What if it was both? - How so? Well,even if he was confronted by two men,the first reaction of an alpha male would be to fight.
- But not if it were a woman.
- It's spring break.
She lures the victim to her hotel room,ties him up,then once he's subdued Her partner arrives.
That could explain the posing and the rape.
The victims are alpha males with aggressive sexual tendencies.
The unsub treats his victims the way they treat women.
So we have a team.
A woman who lures them back to their hotel room and ties them up And a man who rapes and murders them.
******** Thanks,man.
Oh,look at that.
Whoa ho,where are you going? Don't worry about it.
Your unsubs have changed hotels.
What can you tell us? The vic's name is carl cade,another spring breaker.
Any witnesses? His friends saw him last night leave a party with a brunette in a green dress.
Both had been drinking for most of the day, And he only caught a glimpse of the girl before they left the party.
And he found the body posed just like the others.
It sounds like our theory about the partners was right.
Woman lures the victim back,she offers up a little kink,then ties him up.
Only this time the unsubs ventured outside of their comfort zone.
They changed hotels.
Ok,so what's he doing,getting bolder or smarter? Well,the local police are on alert,the fbi is here.
They probably changed pattern to avoid getting caught.
Or because they saw us at the other hotel.
We need to go back to hudson street.
We believe at least one of our unsubs Is either a guest at the hudson street hotel or possible an employee there.
We have agents in uniforms recanvassing the entire property.
But we all know kids on spring break.
They migrate from place to place.
We can't be sure that the killer's still on site.
Which is why we need you to circulate this profile.
We believe we're looking for a dominant/submissive team, a man and a woman probably in their 20s.
We are looking for a heterosexual male who most likely is submissive in his everyday life, With everyone except his partner.
To her he becomes dominant.
His submissive female partner will be socially awkward, of average intelligence,and emotionally unstable.
Look for women who are reclusive,have a problem with authority, and can't interact with dominant personalities.
This form of male rape is about power and dominance.
It is not about sexual orientation.
So victimology is key.
This team targets alpha personality males who think that women are their right.
Add drugs or alcohol to the equation and now we're dealing with eager victims.
Even with the mention of rape,an alpha personality fueled by intoxication believes That he can control the situation and eventually gain the upper hand.
We'll need to blanket the beach with fliers,talk to other hotels and bartenders.
We have got 2 days until the spring break season ends,so let's get to work.
Hey,hotch,i think we got something.
Check this-- no report male rape anywhere in the area.
It's not surprising since it's like one of the least reported crimes on the books.
I also looked at video surveillance for the hudson street hotel on the days of both murders,and zip.
Tell me there is a "but" coming.
But,i also looked at the days leading up to both murders, And,wouldn't you know it,jackpot of jackpots, that would be william browder,aka victim number one.
I would like to call him jerkface,seemingly making advances at damsel in distress, aka hotel employee madison cooke.
See jerkface grab damsel, see adam jackson-- Let's call him white knight--intervene.
See jerkface knock white knight down.
See white knight pause.
See whe knight go postal.
- Didn't the maintenance man find the second victim? - Yeah.
And he told reid and morgan that he'd never met either of the first two victims.
So why lie? Garcia,i need everything you can find on adam jackson.
- I'm already on that.
- Dave,are you still at the scene? Good,we've got a possible.
Where's adam jackson? I don't know.
What's going on? The day before the first murder,u had an altercation with the victim.
It's spring break.
It comes with the territory.
- Adam stepped in? - Yeah.
He doesn't strike me as the type to stand up to a bully.
The guy was being a jerk.
Adam happened to be there.
And you didn't think it was weird that the same kid ended up dead the next night? It wasn't adam.
Then why hide the fact that he got into a fight with one of the victims? Julie told us not to.
She was just trying to protect us both.
- Where's adam? - I don't know.
Honestly.
He's supposed to be on duty,but he disappears sometimes.
He might be on the roof.
Morgan,check the roof.
Adam jackson's life reads like a "how to make an unsub" manual.
Born in corpus christi,biological mother rosemary jackson.
In and out of hospitals-- broken arm,broken rib,exhaustion.
The polite way of saying spousal abuse.
Exactly.
And then she died suddenly when adam was 5.
Father unknown.
Adam was left in the custody of his stepfather,mark harrison.
Then it became adam who was in and out of the emergency room.
He was eventually foster-homed in dallas until he was granted emancipation at the age of 16.
I would bet you if we could see mike harrison back then, He would bear a striking resemblance to our unsubs' victims.
Good work,garcia.
Keep digging.
Adam! Come here.
Come here.
What's happening? - You're coming with us.
- I--i don't understand.
What's going on? Let's go.
He doesn't really look like the dominant partner type,does he? No.
- He's our guy.
- What makes you so sure? It's a classic profile.
He grows up with an abusive stepfather,somehow manages to escape.
Suddenly he finds himself back in the exact same area where his abuser lives.
He's surrounded by nothing but a bunch of alpha males that mirror that type of behavior.
He snaps.
Did he have a problem with you as an authority figure when you interviewed him? He backed away as if he was a little skittish.
And reid? Reid was a little less imposing and he opened up about his life.
Where's julie? We're trying to find her.
She's gonna go ballistic.
You're in a lot of trouble,adam.
But I think you know that,right? The only thing that I did wrong was leave work without telling my boss.
I--i need to talk to julie.
Adam Why don't you tell me about the fight you had with the first victim? I don't remember.
You don't remember? No.
Adam,i really want to help you out,but you' gonna have to do a lot better than that.
Please I just need to talk to julie! Hotch.
I just got off with garcia.
So,adam jackson doesn't just work at the hotel.
- He lives there,too.
- What have we got? When adam was kicked out of school for bad grades,drug possession,And petty theft, he started staying at the hotel.
Julie riley pays his bills.
- The manager? - Yeah.
She's bailed him out of jail twice in the past 4 years.
She's also the one that told madison to cover up the fact that adam had a fight with the first victim.
What's the connection between julie and adam? Uh,it turns out when julie was in college she volunteered at the foster care facility adam used to reside in between homes.
She befriended him and became the surrogate for the absent mother.
And now she's his boss.
He owes her everything.
Adam's not the minant,julie is.
- Garcia.
- Yes,sir.
I need you to track any movement on julie riley.
Cell phone,credit card,atm withdrawal.
I need a last known location.
Julie riley used her credit card 15 minutes ago.
I'm tying the address to your gps Now.
Let's go.
Believe me,kid,this is your lucky night.
*********** ****** ******** ***** ********* ************* ****** ********* Adam,let's talk about the fight you had with the first victim,william browder.
There's nothing to tell.
He grabbed madison,i tried to stop him.
That guy was pretty big.
So? Adam,guys like you and I aren't,uh,we aren't exactly the fighting type.
Well,madisos a good person.
She didn't deserve to be treated that way.
You see,now I'm really confused,because you just told me that you don't remember the fight.
I don't.
I mean,i--i don't,but i--i do.
You don't,but you do.
Can--can you explain to me how that works? I remember he grabbed at madison,i tried to stop him, the next thing I knew,julie was pulling me out of the pool.
Why did you tell your employees to lie to my agents? Adam has a record.
He found one of the bodies.
I didn't want you to take the easy way out and pin the murders on him.
Why do you look out for him? Why did you bail him out of jail,pay his rent and all of his bills? He's had a rough life.
And do you take advantage of that? No.
Safe to say he'd kill for you? - No! - Then ela it to me.
What exactly is the relationship? We've been friends since I was just a kid.
Are you lovers? No.
Well,then why does she pay for everything you have? It's not like it's a handout.
I mean I'm working at the hotel so I can pay her back.
Does she pay for the drugs also? I--i told you,i get migraines.
So,ke a prescription.
I thought you were different.
What does that mean? Do you see something in adam's past that reminds you of yourself? I don't know what you mean.
In 2003,you reported a sexual assault.
And from the look of the file,the police didn't do a very thorough job looking into it.
I don't want to talk about that.
I'm gonna ask you one more time,would adam kill for you? No.
Then prove it.
You know a polygraph is not admissible.
If we catch them in a lie,it could help us get a confession.
And we change interrogators so they can't get into a rhythm with their answers.
State your name.
Julie riley.
Adam jackson.
What color are your eyes? Blue.
Where were you the night carl cade was killed? - At work.
- At home.
Who is the current president of the united states? Barack obama.
Did you murder dan keller? Did you murder william browder? - No.
- No.
What is 32 minus 19? Would you kill for julie? You lied about the altercation with william browder.
Is there anything else you've lied about? - No.
- No.
Did you murder dan keller? What time did you leave work the night william browder was killed? I--i don't remember.
Have you ever had a sexual relationship with julie riley? - Have you lied about anything else? - No.
- Did you murder carl cade? - He's just a friend.
Using the formula y equals mx plus b,what does b represent? - Would adam kill for you? - No.
- Did you murder carl cade? - No.
- No.
- Did you murder william browder? - No.
- Absolutely not.
- Would you kill for julie? - No.
- No.
- No.
What are you looking at? I'm not sure.
- Well,they both passed.
- How is that possible? Not only that,they passed with flying colors.
The only spike I got on adam was a control question regarding geometric equations,but Honestly,i think I just flustered him.
Either way,we got nothing.
Well,i think my couch is calling.
Sweet dreams.
What about you? Clean the pool,change the a/c filter,fix the heat lamps by tonight.
I got it.
Yeah,thanks.
So Where are we? Honestly? Nowhere.
We just watched our two most viable suspects walk out the door.
If adam isn't our unsub,he has all the makings to become one someday.
Reid? Tell me the question that he spiked under in the polygraph.
It was a control question to set the baseline.
It was a geometric equation? Reid,i really think he was just intimidated.
He tried,he got it wrong,but he wasn't supposed to know the answer anyway.
What if he lied? What if--what if he knew the answer to the question but intentionally got it wrong? I--i don't know.
Why would he do that? Because he realized that he wouldn't know that answer.
You're losing me,kid.
Adam,are you in here? Adam said he wasn't getting any rest.
He takes midday naps because he's always exhausted.
He has a history of blackouts,reclusive behavior, Prolonged repeated abuse suffered at the hands of a dominant male Who transferred abuse from his female spouse to his prepubescent child.
Where are you going with this? What if our unsub couple isn't a couple at all? Dissociative identity disorder.
You think adam's a multiple personality? Well,it fits.
Recurrent physical abuse,knowledge he shouldn't have.
We've seen this before.
Look at this.
All right? The first intervention is timid.
It's apprehensive,right? But then he gets knocked down There's a moment of calm,and then his entire body language changes.
I saw this exact same transformation when adam left the station, only it wasn't rage,it was,uh,arrogance.
Like the alter ego wanted me to know.
- Why? - I don't know.
Power,control.
All I know is the person that stared me down over there was not adam.
He's not assertive like that.
He doesn't make eye contt.
So you think the stress of the interrogation blurred the line between adam and his alter personality? I think the unsub surfaced for just a moment.
It knew the answer to the question,realized adam wouldn't,and lied.
So adam and the woman in the green dress are the same person? We profiled the duo accurately,only the dominant personalities and alter are inside of adam.
And adam has no idea he killed all those people.
You could argue that adam didn't kill those people.
A separate person inside of him did.
I don't even know what we do with this.
We take him into custody,we let the courts decide.
I thought you were heading home.
I found this in your room.
- You went in my room? What? - Yeah,i-- you don't remember the fight with william browder, You disappeared before dan keller was killed, - and you won't tell me where you've been.
- What are you saying? Why do you have this? It's not mine.
It was hidden in your closet.
Julie,this is crazy! Ju--ohh! Did--did a woman get you involved in this? No! If you turn her in,then I can help you.
I didn't kill those people! I want to believe you,adam.
Believme! I think that we should go to the police together.
- No! - I'll be right there with you.
We'll figure this out.
Or i'll go by myself.
I said no.
Adam What's going on? You shouldn't be up here.
Adam You're starting to scare me.
My name is amanda.
If you're in some kind of trouble,hon,i can help you.
Adam doesn't need you anymore.
No! No! No! Reid and morgan,take the roof.
We've got adam's room.
Hotchner! In the back! Ok,guys,let's back up! Back up!Come on.
- Excuse me.
- Move,move! We've got a woman down at the back of the hotel.
Send medics as soon as possible.
Julie,can you hear me? - Adam - Ok.
Look,help is on the way.
I need you not to move.
It wasn't Him Strange.
Julie,did he say where he was going? - He called himself amanda.
- The alter personality.
Reid,you were right.
Where would he go? Not he.
She.
Amanda,she panicked.
She knew we would connect this to her.
Ok,ok,so she's feeling the pressure.
She obviously knows she's running out of time.
Where would she go? She's gonna go after the man these victims represent.
Garcia,please tell me you know the whereabouts of mark harrison.
The skeezy wife-beating,child-abusing scumbag never left corpus christi.
Sending his address to your p.
d.
Go.
Medics! - Amanda.
- Stay back.
- Put the knife down.
- Stand back or i'll kill him.
You do not want to do that.
You don't know what he did.
When adam's mother died,his stepfather needed a new outlet for his aggression,didn't he? He put adam in dresses.
He beat him.
He touched him.
Adam was too weak to go through all of that alone.
He was just a little boy.
He needed you to protect him.
I could take it.
I was stronger than he was.
He deserves to die.
Amanda.
Amanda.
That's not for you to decide.
I swear to god,if you put him down and you come with me, I will get you and adam the help that you guys need.
Adam will be sentenced for what I've done.
No I can't let that happen.
Amanda.
If you kill yourself,you kill adam.
I don't see how that's protecting him.
And you know what I know? I know that all you want to do in this world Is protect adam.
it's all I've ever done.
Then why don't you and I help him together.
You can't help him.
I'm the only one.
I know what I have to do.
I will keep him safe forever.
Adam.
Adam.
Reid.
He's gone.
It's time to go,kid.
Reid.
What's eatin' you,man? We've taken the victim into custody and let the abuser go free.
I don't really-- I don't sethat as much of a win.
A lot of lives are gonna be saved now that amanda's off the street.
You know that.
Yeah,i just I wish I could have noticed the signs in time to save adam.
Come on,don't do that to yourself.
None of us could have noticed.
Our profile was right.
We just never considered that the team dynamic could be locked inside one person's mind.
I should have.
Talk to me.
What is this? Tobias hankel.
Tobias hankel drugged and tortured you for 2 days.
He almost killed you.
No,he didn't.
The alter persona of his father did those things to me.
The real tobias hankel saved my life.
He brought me back from the dead.
And you think because of tobias,somehow you owe adam? I just--i know that he's still locked in there somewhere.
Kid.
You're gonna have to accept the fact that sometimes we can't save everyone.
Tell me,dr.
Reid,how long will you keep visiting me in here? Until I find adam.
Why do you care? He deserves a life.
It's his.
So you're trying to Wear me down and release him? No.
I'm just waiting for you to do the right thing.
Well,I'm afraid you'll be waiting for a very long time.
Stephen king wrote,"monsters are real,and ghosts are real,too.
" "they live inside us.
And sometimes they win.