PHOENIX,ARIZONA He's too damn old.
Overweight, overpriced.
Too damn old.
What, so you're saying they should have kept marion? That's exactly what i'm saying.
Marion, nash, stoudemire.
Well, that's a team.
Yeah, same team that couldn't even make it past the first round.
What is it? - Where are we? - What? I'm asking you, where are we? I don't know.
Sixth and Buckeye? Wrong.
We were on sixth 8 bloc ago.
Well, so what? What are we doing back here? We're learning.
Now, where are we? I don't know.
You've got to know.
You always, always have got to know where you are.
I mean, let's just say you jumput of the car and run after some maggot.
This thing can't help you.
Back-up will wind up at the car 5 blocks away.
Won't do you much good, now will it? No, sir.
Don't sir me.
Sir's for the academy.
I'm your partner.
Yes, sir--uh, right.
Four-fifteen frank, 4129 23rd avenue.
Repeat, four-fifteen frank in progress at 4129 23rd.
That's domestic violence.
Tell them we're on it.
Uh, copy that.
Damn it.
My flashlight.
Are you kidding me? Hurry up! Hold it! Oh, my god! Officer down, officer down! Copy that, officer.
What's your 20? We're at 23rd street! Officer? Back-up is on the way.
907-- all units, 4129 23rd avenue Earlier this evening, the phoenix police force lost two of our own.
Sergeant manuel rodriguez and officer thomas kayser were killed in the line of duty.
That's 3 officers in the past 4 days.
After the first shooting, the phoenix police department assumed gang involvement.
Pretty reasonable assumption.
True.
Almost 30% of all officer slayings are gang related.
Technically it's closer to 40%.
If a cop isn't killed during a commission of a crime, gang involvement is highly likely.
Actually, their precinct commander believes it may be a serial and has asked for our help.
What makes him doubt the gang theory? A couple of things.
Last night's victims were killed exactly the same way as the first.
Shot in the neck.
Something that the press didn't release.
Well, now, wait.
There could still be a gang behind this.
Killers working together could establish the same M.
O.
Commander Marks hasn't ruled it out, but there's another detail-- Trophies.
Killer took their badges.
Gang members don't usually take trophies.
They don't need to.
This is an unsub with something to pre.
And he's got the entire city on edge.
Kill those who protect and serve, and no one feels safe.
proudly presents sync:ßÇÈâÈâ Season04 Episode10 Brothers in Arms "*******skin, and i for one would be willing to skin humanity to prove it.
" Ayn rand.
Go ahead, Garcia.
Ok, while you birds have been in the air, i got the 411 on the first shooting.
Apparently every saturday night, phoenix p.
d.
sets up a dui checkpoint.
Is that common knowledge? Mais, oui.
Public awareness is part of the deterrent.
So our unsub blows past said checkpoint at 90 mph, And is pursued by a officer jason kessinger.
Kessinger pulls the car over, approaches the driver's side window, Where he is shot in the throat.
Mon dieu.
He was a single parent, 2 daughters.
So, the unsub planned ahead, used the dui stop to set his trap, And then lured the officer to his death.
It could have been personal.
The unsub might have had a problem with these particular officers.
Or with law enforcement in general.
He's sending a message.
Criminals, gang members, academy washouts, security rent a cops, teenagers, and that's just a start.
I mean, the list of people who have a problem with police officers is a long one.
The victims were shot in the neck, so the unsub knew they'd be wearing body armor.
And he used a dui checkpoint.
I mean, both incidents show an active understanding of police procedure.
Which narrows it down to anybody who watches television.
We need to cover victimology.
Garcia, find out everything you can about the officers killed.
See what they had in common besides their uniforms.
Will do, but i should warn you, it will not be cake Because i have been on the phone with these guys all morning, And pulling files from them has been like pulling molars.
Is there a problem? You know, aside from the obvious grief for their fallen comdres, And their fear of being used as target practice, I get the distinct impression from their crabby behavior, They are none too pleased their boss is outsourcing this investigation to the fbi, so Be prepared to hit a blue wall of resistance.
Commander Marks, i'm ssa Hotchner.
This is agent Todd.
Agents Rossi, Prentiss, Morgan, and dr.
Spencer Reid.
- Thank you for inviting us.
- And thank you all for coming.
Although i'd like to have a word if you don't mind.
Of course.
Excuse me.
Uh, lieutenant evans.
Lieutenant evans will answer any questions the rest of you may have.
I'll call you later.
This way.
Sorry, that was officer kayser's wife.
They'd only been married a couple of months.
She seems to think that the fbi is here to save the day.
Is that what you're going to do, agents? I apologize.
It turns out i may have wasted your time.
Ballistics came back.
Both .
357 magnums, but not a match.
Looks like we're talking about - We don't think so.
- Really? Well, everyone he is pretty convinced this is the beginning of a gang war.
No, i understand that you could see it that way, But we believe that the shootings are indicative of a single killer, One who's not a gang member.
You're saying one shooter, multiple weapons.
That's the theory.
Both attacks were detailed, well planned out traps, not typical for a gang hit.
And the trophy taking suggests serial pathology, as well.
All right, look, i know i called you guys in, but i am way out on a limb here.
My officerfeel like it's a betrayal, like i don't trust them to find this son of a bitch.
I gotta get this settled fast before this whole department comes unglued.
Look, i get it.
We're only here to help and not hijack the investigation.
But if our theory is correct, the unsub's already looking for another excuse to kill again.
See, this is twelve's territory.
- And you think they're behind this? - Does it matter? Yes, it matters to us, lieutenant.
You know this city and its gangs better than we do.
We'd like to hear your theories.
Ok, twelves has a captain.
Street name playboy.
Vice broke up a drug ring.
Shot his brother, d.
o.
a.
playboy thought he would kill us all.
Well, it is pretty strong motivation, but your commander said the dash cam only showed one attacker.
Most 'bangers will bring some back-up just in case.
Well, playboy runs the toughest crew in town.
He's not "most 'bangers.
" Well, you said the dash cam only showed one attacker.
Why show your face at all? Because he had to.
He wanted to take them both out at the house, but they broke protocol.
Rodriguez approached the house by himself.
Wait a minute.
Are you telling me they screwed up? No, lieutenant, i'm saying that they split up, forcing the unsub to take them out separately, One here at the house and one at the car.
That front unit's empty.
He could have set himself up there and waited.
The element of surprise was on his side.
Choice of neighborhood was deliberate.
Neighbors around here are used to hearing gunfire.
They'll blame it on the gangs, and so will the police.
Techs have gone over this frame by frame.
There's no way to identify the shooter.
Approximate height and weight, that's about all we got.
The unsub's face isn't the only way to identify him.
We also look at specific behavioral traits.
These are the reasons you don't believe it's a gang? The shooter established what we call a signature, Something he did during the murders that wasn't actually necessary.
Not part of his M.
O.
, but identical in every attack.
In this case, the unsub took the officer's badges.
He's symbolically stripping them of their power and authority.
This act is indicative of someone who is looking to gain self-esteem.
Gang members and other assailants who work together kill for different reasons, But usually it's not to gain confidence, 'cause they already have it.
Hotch, you see that? Can we pause this? Ok, now zoom in and press play.
Taking the badge would have taken a few seconds.
- He's lingering.
- Doing what? That's a good question.
At least now, everyone with force knows he's out there.
It'll be harder for him to lure someone into his trap.
Well, not necessarily.
Being a cop is always dangerous, but even with the extra back-up and rover cars added to the shifts, Phoenix p.
d.
's still going to have to do their job.
Which means walking into a potential ambush every time they take a call.
Repeat, 245, report of an aggravated assault.
Copy that.
Behind the car.
Oh, yeah.
- Looks like a couple of bums.
- Yep.
Hey, police! Clear out of here! I got it! Son of a bitch! Mark! Mark! Mark! Officer down, 106 east broadway road.
Copy that, officer, calling for back-up.
code 2, 106 east broadway road.
Mark! Car 5-1, back-up is on the way.
Car 5-1, i repeat, back-up is on the way.
Thank you.
He set us up.
We knew he was out there, he still managed to set us up.
I'm sorry.
I watched my partner die, and i couldn't do anything to save him.
Don't worry, ron.
Playboy's going to pay for this.
Yosaw playboy there? - No, but-- - we all know he did it, agent.
No, we don't.
Lieutenant, you think i don't know how bad you want this guy? I was a uniform just like you.
I saw a lot of cops go down.
Before that, i watched my father get shot.
He was killed doing his job, a cop's job, so don't think i don't know.
Officer Mercer, what happened when you got the call? Nothing special.
Report of an aggravated assault.
We were on it.
This your regular beat? We were additional tonight, added because of the shootings.
Did you get a look at the guy? Nothing.
I was too damn scared.
I'm still scared.
You're not the only one.
My partner's family.
What am i going to tell them? The only thing you can tell them-- that we're going to catch the guy who did this.
But the right guy.
Anything? We can forget cross referencing.
These guys were just assigned this beat.
There's no way the unsub could have known they'd get the call.
He's using the 9-1-1 calls like a lottery.
He's picking cops at random.
And yet there's nothing random about the shootings.
Each scenario has been increasingly complex.
He's enjoying the hunt.
Taking the time to set his victims up and luring them into his net.
It's become as important to him as the kill itself.
And this last one he executed while the fbi and every cop in the city was after him.
And the press Their attention's feeding him.
Playing right into the unsub's need to feel superior.
The press is not our on problem.
These guys are still trying to pin the shootings on a gangbanger named playboy.
I have a feeling we're not going to be able to hold them off much longer.
Hello, playboy.
What the hell, man? Let's go spend some quality time together.
Time for what? - Whatever you got, i didn't do it.
- Yeah.
Lighten up, man.
I'm telling you, i didn't do it.
Yeah? Well, i got a magic eight ball that says you did, playboy.
Commander, what's going on? What's going on is my officers are being shot in the streets and crucified by the press.
That's what's going on.
So you've arrested the wrong person? I brought in a viable subjt for questioning.
I had to do something.
I didn't kill no cop.
Period.
Sure, playboy.
Just cross your heart, and we're done.
Commder, i understand the pressure you're under, But doing this could undermine the investigation.
Bringing in another suspect draws attention away from the real unsub.
If he starts to feel inadequate, he may strike sooner just to prove himself.
It's also possible accusing one of their members could antagonize local gangs, Which is the last thing your officers need to be worrying about right now.
All right, look.
I told you guys i was out on a limb here, so unless you have a suspect Hotch.
Since we've got this guy, why don't we see if we can use him? You mind if talk to him? Be my guest.
Commander, i appreciate your letting agent Morgan join the interrogation, But i promise you, this is not our unsub.
The real killer's still out there.
I know you didn't do it, playboy.
So why you dragging my ass in here, then? I said i know you didn't kill those cops, but he doesn't.
And they don't.
And trust me, they don't care, man.
But you do.
Oh, you care about me.
I don't give a damn about you.
Tell you what i do care about.
Catching the killer.
I told you, i didn'do it.
But i think you know who did.
No way, man.
It wasn't one of us.
OK.
I'll give you that.
Whoever did do this ain't no 'banger.
But he's been working your hood pretty tough, though, huh? Without your say.
He's making you look real suspect, playboy.
Causing you nothing but trouble.
He won't last long, then.
Come on, man, look around you.
From where i'm sitting, it looks like he's doing all right so far.
I mean, if i'm you, i'm thinking i want this guy gone for good.
What you think? Yeah.
You know so much.
Who is he? Probably somebody you'd least suspect.
Probably wouldn't even think twice about him 'cause he really don't look all that dangerous.
Well, at least not on the surface.
But he gets real violent.
- Well, we all violent.
- No, no, no, not like this, man.
This cat goes from cold to hot in a heartbeat, nothing in between.
Takes everything real personal.
Thinks everybody's trying to put him down, so he's always looking for a fight, Even if he knows he's going to lose.
- So he's stupid.
- Maybe.
But he's aggressive.
Think, man.
You give me something, maybe i get you out of all of this.
He's white.
He's older than you, not by much.
And he works alone.
You know somebody like this, i know you do.
There was this guy He was white.
He killed me lieutenant a couple of months ago.
- Bobby q.
- Yeah.
He was like my brother.
Yeah, your brother was a junkie, so was bobby q.
I see the similarity.
Sit down, sit down! Don't even think about it.
Talk to me.
Forget him.
I'm helping you, he's not.
All right.
Your lieutenant, bobby q.
What happened? Well, i told the cops it wasn't a gang thing.
They didn't believe me.
Yeah, that's 'cause you always tell us the truth, don't you, playboy? I'm serious, man.
Playboy, don't do it.
So who killed him? If i knew his name, he'd be dead already.
There's been another shooting.
- I'll cut him loose.
- No.
Not yet.
Hotch, this guy knows something.
All right, keep working on it.
They have the shooter cornered in an apartment building downtown.
Dave, stay with Morgan, see what this guy has to offer.
Prentiss, you're with me.
- He's in there? - Yeah, we got him cornered.
Men on both floors and the entrances.
- You know this guy? - Yeah, a banger called diablo.
He's one of the lindo park assassins.
Daws followed him here.
- He all right? - He'll live.
He's a lucky bastard.
We'd like to talk to daws, if you don't mind.
All right, ok, stay down.
Sergeant daws.
I'm special agent emily Prentiss, this is ssa Hotchner.
What happened? He killed my partner.
We're sorry.
We were stopped at a light.
Bastard came right up to the window.
Shot scotty in the head, then shot me.
- Wait a minute.
- There was no radio call? No.
Came out of nowhere.
Guess he thought he'd bagged us both.
Luckily, a truck came.
He ran.
I called it in, managed to tail him here.
- Ok, thank you, sergeant.
- It doesn't track.
- No, it was a blitz attack.
- Let's go.
Let us go in and try to talk him down.
No, hold on.
What's going on? I've got movement.
Looks like ramey and wilhelm are inside the apartment.
Attempting to apprehend.
What the hell happened in there? Daws said it's a blitz attack.
It's a different M.
O.
Yeah, and this was done in broad daylight.
It's not our guy.
Yeah, Morgan, what have you got? Well, playboy's lieutenant was shot in the neck with a .
357 magnum.
Could have been our guy.
All right, i want you to stay on it.
- Hotch, what's going on? - Nothing good.
Garcia, i need you to pull everything you can on a phoenix gangbanger called diablo.
Muy pronto.
Well, let's close it off here.
Commander, can i speak to you for a second? Sorry to see it end this way, losing another officer, but i'm glad it's over.
Sir, i don't believe that it is.
What are you saying? The guy is dead.
This suspect diablo doesn't fit the profile.
Are you telling me he didn't shoot officer daws and his partner? What i'm saying is, he may not be responsible for the earlier killings.
- Agent Hotchner!Agent Hotchner! - Commander, we have to be sure! I have got the chief, i've got the press, i've the mayor.
Do you realize the pressure the department's under right now? Yes, sir, i do, but it wasn't him.
There was an earlier murder with the same M.
O.
This unsub may have killed one of the twelves.
And how does that help us? This unsub thinks of himself as a big game hunter now, but he didn't start out that way.
Meaning? He started with a gang member, and he's evolved.
Give me 24 hours.
They're notonna wait that long, and neither is the chief.
I'll give you four.
Thanks, man.
Great job.
Evans.
I need your help.
I'd like you to pull a file on playboy's lieutenant.
It's over, agent.
We got the guy.
No, we didn't.
What, because he turned out to be a gangbanger after all? Let it go.
You guys made a mistake.
You guys were wrong.
So was i.
No harm, no foul.
No offense, lieutenant, but we're not wrong.
The killer is still out there, and more cops will die.
You heard what officer Mercer said.
His partner was shot.
He couldn't do anything to save him.
Do you want to feel like that when another one of your guys does get killed? Or do you want to know that you did everything you could to try to keep it from happening again? Ballistics aren't back yet, But the preliminary m.
e.
reports suggest the weapon used to kill officer beck was not a .
357 I spoke to Garcia.
Beck arrested diablo twice on drug charges, last time sent him away for 10 years.
Diablo was just released on parole last week.
So diablo went after the cop who put him away assuming it would be lumped in with the other murders.
The unsub would take the fall.
Hey, it almost worked.
Lieutenant, what did you find? Well, i pulled up that information on playboy's lieutenant, bobby q.
There's not much there.
And you're thinking playboy was right, that we didn't pay enough attention to the case.
Did you? Look, the majority of homicides in this city are gang killings.
Most times we spend time and resources following trails that all lead to the same place anyway.
We just assumed this was just another one of those trails.
Being in a gang shortens your life expectancy, So it's no big surprise when a gangbanger winds up dead.
Same thing could be said about being a cop.
The job involves a fair amount of risk, so a percentage of untimely deaths is practically inevitable.
The M.
O.
is the same as our unsub's.
Did, um, playboy tell you if the killer took a trophy? He said boy q's necklace was missing.
Yeah, that's in the report.
Big chain, solid gold.
Just figured the doer took it to pawn it.
- Or as a souvenir.
- Fits the signature.
He built up to this.
We need to go further back.
Garcia, can you pull everything in the phoenix area That matches the same M.
O.
as our unsub, not just police officers.
Ok.
So i'm searching homicides in phoenix in, what, the last 2 months? - Make it three.
- Got it.
Murders, shootings, specifically neck wounds.
Oh, i got a guy named robert quinones, nickname bobby q.
We already have that one.
Anything else? Ah, just one more.
A bouncer at a bar in downtown phoenix, mickey reese.
Weapon's a .
357 magnum.
Interesting.
It says here the victim was wearing a ballistic vest.
Apparently they don't serve shley temples at this establishment.
If the bouncer was wearing a vest, that could be how our unsub developed his M.
O.
- Send us everything you've got.
- Sure.
Done.
All right, we got gangbangers, bouncers and cops.
All pretty tough targets; victims capable of defending themselves.
As the unsub's sense of power escalated, so did his confidence, Leading to bigger and more difficult prey.
That makes sense.
Risky deaths would increase the unsub's feeling of superiority.
Same thing with using a .
357 magnum.
It would make him feel powerful.
Cops are at the top of that list.
High profile, always on alert, and they're gonna make headlines.
Killing a gangbanger isn't easy.
They're always armed, travel in packs.
The bouncer's the earliest.
It was a pretty simple attack, no carefully thought out plan.
He could have been his first victim.
We need to figure out where their paths crossed.
Morgan, you, Rossi and the lieutenant go check out the bar.
We'll keep digging.
Like i told the cop before, it could have been anyone.
Did reese have any enemies? That's all he had.
Mick was a real hard ass.
Always looking to get into it.
Pissed off someone pretty much every night.
Looks like he took quite a beating before he was killed.
Any idea which one of your patrons might have given him these bruises? Didn't get those here, man.
De was into some kind of crazy club.
Extreme fighting, or some crap like that.
Looked like that, and worse, all the time.
Worked pretty good for his job, know what i mean? A fight club would be the perfect place for the unsub to try to prove himself.
And a beating might be the stressor we're looking for.
Do you know where this club is? Go, go! ***** Fbi, get on the ground! Get on the ground right now! Get on the ground! Get on the ground! Don't move! Get down! That way, let's go.
Ain't breaking no laws here, officer.
Agents, no matter what it looks like I think he's trying to let us know they have to right to be idiots.
They do, but not here.
Listen up, folks.
This warehouse is not private property.
It is owned by the city, which means Y'all are going to jail.
Pa 'em up, let's go.
We ain't hurting nobody, except maybe each other.
Yeah, i feel you, but we're still taking you in.
Unless you want to answer some questions and make all this go away.
So ask me.
- You know this man? - Yeah.
Boom.
I heard.
But i didn't kill him.
No, but someone who came here did.
No way.
Boom could take all of us.
We aren't looking for a tough guy.
The man we're looking for probably lost every fight.
He came in here trying to be a man.
But he failed.
Guy went down easily.
Candy ass.
Maybe even in his first fight.
He probably reacted poorly to that.
To the point where you and your boys, you ridiculed him.
All this led him to pick up a gun.
There was a guy.
Called himself "animal.
" Lost every fight, but he kept coming back, getting in boom's face, calling him out.
Most guys lose big, they run home, tail between their legs.
This one freaked.
There's something about that hand at your throat, when you're beat.
Knowing your opponent's got your whole life in his hand.
Ah, it's primal, man.
When he lingers That's what he's doing to his victims.
Proving his power over life and death.
What's animal's real name? There's no names here.
Just nicknames.
Like me.
I'm beanie.
Well, what do you know about this animal? Anything at all? Nothing.
That's the way it works, you know? Don't talk about it.
How about a description? Scrawny, white trash.
Thought he's a whole lot tougher than he is.
Get him set up with a sketch artist.
Beanie Let's go.
So what do we do now? We don't have a lot of choices.
Based on his escalating timeline, this guy's about to strike again soon.
There's really only one thing we can do.
Earlier today, the phoenix police announced the suspect responsible for The deaths of 5 phoenix officers had been caught.
That is not the case.
The killer is still at large.
There have been quite a few mistakes made over the course of this investigation, Mistakes that could have been avoided.
As a result of this, the fbi is officially taking charge of the investigation.
We have established a tip line, and a sketch of the subject is being released to the press.
We encourage anyone with any information about the shooter to contact us immediately.
The man we're looking for is a narcissist and a psychopath desperate to prove his masculinity.
He does this by going after high risk targets like gang members and police officers.
Because hes a narcissist, this unsub will be following the investigation closely.
By pretending to take over the investigation, we've put ourselves above the local police, Thus suggesting that we're tougher to take out, And issuing the unsub a challenge that he won't be able to ignore.
And painting a target directly on agent Hotchner's back.
All the attacks, with the exception of the last one, Have taken place in the twelve's territory.
This is the unsub's hunting ground, and he's unlikely to stray from it.
Where did you say you saw the suspect? Police department, how can i help you? Phoenix police hotle.
Locations have multiple vanish points for the shooter, But limited access and exit routes for his victims.
We'll be looking for a similar situation.
This should happen very quickly.
Don't forget-- this guy managed to take out 5 cops by himself.
He smart, and he's fearless.
He won't be easy to take down.
Fbi tip line.
I saw that guy.
Your killer.
The one from tv.
Male caller.
He says he knows where the unsub lives, and it fits the criteria.
It's the twelve's territory, just off the main street.
Looks like there's a series of smaller feeders and allies nearby.
- This could be it.
- Let's go.
Slow down, lieutenant.
He'll be expecting us.
All of us.
This is his last stand.
He's going to want to make it count.
Yeah, well, this time we know about it and we're ready.
His trap could still work.
you know about the neighborhood? It's rough.
Lots of dead-end streets, allies.
Major cross street, 17th.
Residential? Any businesses at all? There's a gas station a couple of blocks down, but that's about it.
- Hey, Garcia? - Yes? Can you get us a satellite image of 15th avenue and gelson? But of course.
Ok, real time satellite image shows Not a whole heck of a lot.
I've got a 2-story apartment building, no activity of any kind, no cars out in front.
Oh, there's a car down the street.
No heat registering, engine must be cool.
Satellite monitoring the last A truck and 2 cars left in the a.
m.
, nothing came in.
Thank you, Garcia.
All right, there's a major street in front on the east side, an ally, And 2 smaller streets to the north and south right here.
Lieutenant, commander, i need a sniper here and here.
Once they're set, the bulk of the squad cars can approach from the south, And the rest of us from the east very quietly.
From this point forward, everybody goes in on foot.
Morgan, you and i go in first.
Rossi and Prentiss behind us.
Jordan, you and Reid stay here and work the tip line.
- Stay safe, my loves.
- Thanks, Garcia.
Clear! Clear! False alarm.
We knew we'd get some.
- What now? - We wait.
You might want to split your officers into shifts.
It could be a long night.
Not this time.
You're done.
Let's go.
You knew he wouldn't be at the first address.
We figured he'd wait until Hotch was alone.
So the tip was a diversion.
Something like that.
Thank you.
And your team.
No thanks necessary, lieutenant.
We did it together.
No, playboy! Hotch Why don't you go on ahead? I think i'm going to stick around.
There's something i want to do.
- Agent Morgan.
- Derek.
This way.
This is agent Morgan from the fbi.
Maggie cunningham and sam, my partner's family.
Mrs.
Cunningham, i'm sorry for your loss.
Thank you.
Hey, sam We got the bad guy who did this.
Sam, your father was a hero.
Don't you ever forget that.
"for he today who sheds his blood with me shall be my brother.
" William Shakespeare.