Previously, on "criminal minds" Oh, my god! That's hotch and kate! Hey, are you ok? Hotchner, is he ok? He can't fly for a little bit.
His ears are-- but he's gonna be fine.
LOWER CANAAN,OHIO Jeez, bo, you scared me half to death.
Such a cliche.
See that, bo? Guess i'm supposed to make a wish or something, right? Come on, bo.
How is the buzzing now? It's ok.
I think i could actually get used to that part.
The problem is dealing with the pain.
You're experiencing hyperacusis.
It's caused by sudden loud noises, like an explosion.
So what do we do about it, doctor? You have a small tear in your right eardrum.
We'll treat that with a bonding agent.
It'll most likely heal itself in a week or two.
Most likely? The condition can sometimes become permanent.
But i can go back to work? Putting someone in the field with acute sensitivity to sound would be a mistake.
Agent hotchner, if you're not careful, you could lose your hearing entirely.
- i understand.
- good.
But you'll Sign my return to duty? W-what if i said i'd Take it easy and Limit my role in the field? Stay out of loud places.
Your phone is ringing.
What's up, j.
j.
? This is delilah grennan.
She was bludgeoned and raped during the night at her home in lower canaan, ohio.
Lower where? Small town 40 miles outside of cincinnati.
Staging the body face-up with the arms across the chest like that.
Ritual.
Nice hair, by the way.
- thanks.
- uh, there's more.
Small puncture wounds on her stomach.
Note the lack of blood.
They were inflicted post-mortem.
Were there any other victims? Kind of.
Victimology and signature match a serial killer from the same town 10 years ago-- months.
he called himself-- The angel maker.
I remember the case.
- they caught that guy.
- and executed him.
That's right.
He was put to death by lethal injection a year ago yesterday.
Yesterday.
So we're looking for a copycat.
Honoring the anniversary of his hero's death.
It says here they found semen at the crime scene.
Perhaps locals will get a dna match when they run it through vicap? Well, that's where it gets weird.
They ran it already and they got a match, too.
Well, if they already have a name, why'd they call us? They've got to be kidding.
The match they got back on the dna is to a cortland bryce ryan, otherwise known as The angel maker.
Proudly presents Season04 Episode02 The Angel Maker Serial Killer Coutimues to Elude Police "we all die.
"the goal isn't to live forever.
The goal is to create something that will.
" Chuck Palahniuk.
The angel maker's victims were beaten with the assailant's bare hands.
Delilah grennan was bludgeoned with a heavy instrument, maybe a hammer.
Ok, so this unsub's a weaker guy, but at least someone who perceives himself that way.
So he brought along the hammer to make certain his victim wouldn't fight back? They have parachutes on-board, right? They should.
It's standard on all federal air transport.
Maybe we can give one to the elephant in the room, get him out of here? That'd be the elephant with the dead man's dna.
Well, obviously somebody planted the semen on the victim.
In the victim.
That's one theory.
There's another? Think about who shares the exact dna makeup of another person.
Reid, you're not seriously floating around the idea of an evil twin, are you? No, i'm not.
I'm floating the idea of an eviler twin.
Traditionally, the concept is a good twin and an evil twin.
But in this case, it's evil twin, eviler twin.
- hotch? - yeah.
You have been cleared to fly, haven't you? Before cortland ryan, this town hadn't seen a homicide in over 30 years.
He didn't just kill those 6 women.
He killed a way of life.
Now this thing's got people thinking he's come back.
They don't really think that, do they? I guess when you've been scared by something, i mean really scared, that fear's in you forever.
Let's stick to the facts.
Were there signs of forced entry? None that we could find, but whoever killed delilah grennan opened up every window in this house before he left.
That's a signature from the previous murders.
A detail we never released to the public.
And it came out at the trial? No, sir.
Prosecution had ryan nailed 9 ways to sunday.
Didn't need it.
So i'm hard-pressed to know how this copycat knew about those windows.
The man we're looking for is most likely a fan who exhaustively studied the first killings And used them to form his own murder fantasies.
He knows this case as well as us; better, maybe, If he had actual contact with ryan while he was incarcerated.
We sent one of our agents to hawkesville prison to look into it.
And the semen? Smuggled out of the prison, kept on ice, brought out on the anniversary of the execution.
There's an entire cottage industry based on serial killer effects and memorabilia.
You can find absolutely anything if you know the right people.
Question is, is this a one-time commemoration or is it just the beginning? What about the puncture wounds? City Morgue LOWER CANAAN,OHIO My best guess is a small screwdriver, like a phillips head.
Just like the prior murders.
This guy's a stickler for the details.
The groupings in the prior victims were always different in number and arrangement.
But i also found traces of paper in the wounds.
Paper? Like tissue? Like notebook paper.
Well, that's new.
Unique to the copycat.
What is it? I don't know.
It just seems familiar.
Ryan didn't have any next of kin, so after the execution, All of his effects got boxed and stored.
This is all his correspondence? Copies, at least.
Helps the warden keep tabs on certain prisoners if he can know what's in their mail.
There's a lot of letters.
A lot of fans.
Real lady killer.
What about male fans? Some, yeah.
Freaks.
This one kid would come by.
Musician, i think.
Black clothes and eyeliner and all that.
He sent ryan his demo tape and some sheet music he wrote in his own blood.
Did you ever catch ryan trying to smuggle anything out, to this kid or anyone else? Usual problem we have is stuff being smuggled in, not out.
His dna was found at a fresh crime scene in lower canaan.
What kind of dna we talking about? Type of dna that cats in lockup don't have occasion to use.
All right.
Well, listen, thank you for all this, but i want to look at all your visitor logs, all right? Excuse me.
Yeah, j.
j.
? Ok, uh Yeah, i'm headed right back.
Something wrong? A local newspaper just got a letter from someone claiming to be the angel maker.
"i give you a legacy, a breath of life from the angel maker himself.
Those who prayed to forget me will one day see my face and shrink in fear.
" That's the last thing people need right now.
Reid, how's it compare with the original correspondence? They share some compelling characteristics.
I'd obviously like to look at it under magnification with a better light.
Best guess, reid? Say it's authentic.
How can this letter be authentic if the guy's been dead for a year? Could be an elaborate forgery.
Or it could be the genuine article, just written before his death.
Well, mail here isn't that slow.
Or released through an intermediary.
You mean the copycat? We're going over the prison visitor logs to check who had multiple visits with ryan, Try to narrow our suspect pool.
Sela? What are you doing here? Is it true? There's a letter? How did you know? You didn't really think you could keep that quiet around here.
The letter's not from him, not the way people might be saying.
- what does that mean? - it It means we think he has someone on the outside, a friend.
What if you're wrong?What if-- There's no such thing as ghosts, sela.
I'm not talking about a ghost.
I am talking about those rumors about the execution, How there were problems, how it didn't work right.
What are you suggesting? What if he's still out there? Don't do that.
You think i'm the only one? Look outside.
They want proof that he's dead.
I have to advise against this.
All due respect, this isn't your town.
I have to convince them that cortland ryan is dead and buried.
But you're indulging this killer by perpetuating the ruse he's created.
He's right.
It may embolden him, prompt more murders.
Sela lost her only daughter to that bastard.
We met when i was working the case, grew close.
I thought we'd gotten past all this, but i guess i was kidding myself.
Hotch? Hotch? Hotch, are you all right? Can i do anything? Yeah, i'm ok, i'm ok, i'm ok.
Ok.
My god.
Cortland ryan is dead.
There's no two ways about it.
We're just trying to be thorough, dr.
Hagen.
We heard that there may have been irregularities with the execution.
His heart was stopped.
His pupils were nonresponsive.
Trust me.
This is not the first execution i've pronounced at.
But it was the last.
Did something happen that day to prompt your resignation from the corrections department? Everyone dies different.
Ryan went hard is all.
What does that mean, doctor? After we cycled the drugs, we realized he was still alive.
We weren't prepared for that.
How is that possible? The catheter dislodged.
We reinserted it, started the potassium chloride.
He started shaking.
Spitting.
He was suffocating.
Catheter failed again.
Took him almost an hour to die, almost as if something were keeping him here.
He said this was going to happen, you know.
That what was gonna happen? His last words.
He said he'd come back.
You may think you've seen the last of me, but death cannot take me from you.
I will be born again.
Today you make me a legend.
Always had a flair for the dramatic.
Set the stage perfectly: a latter-day lazarus returning to deliver hell on earth.
We need to debunk this, or the whole town's gonna panic.
Little late for that.
The grave-robbing we can explain.
It has to be a fan.
You think the same person that did the copycat murder took ryan's body? It's possible.
He had to have help.
Someone on the inside.
I suppose you're gonna tell me there's a cottage industry for that, too.
Did you know that john wayne gacy painted clowns? A murdering pedophile paints clowns, and people hang them on their walls.
It's creepy on so many levels.
i mean, clowns-- Garcia, i didn't know you had that hang-up.
Coulrophobia-- abnormal fear of clowns.
Oh, no, there is nothing abnormal about it.
When i was 12, a hobo clown groped my breast at a birthday party And made this old-timey honking noise when he did it.
Apparently making it funny makes it ok.
Were you able to find any auctions on angel maker memorabilia? Oh, my vision.
I found a ton.
Mr.
Maker was quite the self-promoter.
He autographed everything: photos, panties, and for the discerning collector, screwdrivers.
You got to be kidding me.
Yeah.
He also made these little origami figurines out of cigarette boxes, Which, i hate to say, are really cute.
Did you pinpoint the most active collectors? That would be his overseas fans.
What about local buyers who also turned up on the prison visitor log? Zilch.
What about sellers? High-volume broker might know a broader spectrum of fans.
There is one guy in particular who seems to be the local distributor, as it were.
You got a name? Shebang! - sid rutledge.
- rutledge? You know him? He's a guard at hawkesville.
Sid rutledge, fbi.
Open up.
Just want to talk.
I can't see anyone.
Oh, guy's got two dead bolts.
He doesn't use either? Sid? Sid, we're coming in.
Wakey, wakey, my man.
Damn.
One to the grill, one to the groin.
That's personal.
Yeah, well, if rutledge was selling the unsub memorabilia, he knew his identity.
Now the unsub's covering his tracks.
Rutledge probably contacted him after you paid a visit to the prison.
He let him in, let his guard down, boom.
A little, uh, heavy on the old spice.
Strikes me as an aqua velva guy.
Man, you're good.
Hey, it looks like he took something.
Hello.
I think we've got this unsub all wrong.
There have been some strange happenings in this case, But i urge you not to abandon reason in the search of the truth.
This is not the work of a ghost, and it's not the work of a killer come back from the dead.
This is the work of somebody who lives right here in lower canaan, and this person is a woman.
Her last victim, sid rutledge-- he was the angel maker's mule.
He smuggled items out of hawkesville prison, including the semen that was planted at the first crime scene.
She killed rutledge because he knew she was the copycat, and also because he was blackmailing her.
So i'm thinking you and i need to talk.
We now know that rutledge was transferred to hawkesville from a female prison, In the wake of allegations that he was using his position to leverage sexual favors from inmates.
And we think he did the same thing to our unsub; in exchange for his silence, he wanted sex.
Because she shot him in the junk, right? That, and the fact that he took a pde-5 inhibitor shortly before his murder.
A what? Viagra.
We're looking for a white woman in her mid-30s and she's highly intelligent.
And she's not just a fan, she's a groupie.
Now, she's not what you would normally expect.
More often than not, they're attractive, they're well-educated, They're successful; some are even married.
Generally, they fall into types.
Some are reformers.
They're on a mission to save or rescue these murderers.
Often, this type of groupie has been raised in a repressive, religious environment And specifically have been exposed to the ideals of sexual repression and subjugation of women.
Our unsub is a different type, one who suffers from hybristophilia.
It's a sexual attraction to men who commit violent crimes.
They give her a power that she lacks, which stems from low self-esteem and a need for a father figure.
Well, the victims were raped.
How do you explain that? She's using an instrument to simulate the sexual assault This is something that she keeps in her rape kit, Along with the weapon that she's using to bludgeon her victims.
This is a list of women who visited and wrote the angel maker while he was in prison.
We've started to track these leads, but the list is extensive, so we're gonna need your help.
Hey, you ever get groupies at your book signing? Sometimes, if barry manilow isn't in town.
Any of them look like that? Shara carlino.
She visited ryan over 70 times.
Waits an average of 3 hours for a Would you endure that for a guy? For barry manilow, maybe.
She was a marketing vp in cincy till '99, moved here, Took an outside sales job, commission only-- serious pay cut.
I'm guessing she came for the view.
According to these logs, you were the angel maker's number-one fan.
His name is cortland, and i wasn't a fan.
How would you characterize your relationship? We were lovers.
Last time i checked, they didn't allow conjugal visits on death row.
It wasn't about physical interaction.
When you take away the flesh, there's only the soul.
Everything was understood.
There were no secrets.
Cortland made me feel alive, in a way no free man ever could.
Where were you on the Why? We believe this copycat killing was committed by a female fan, someone who knew cortland very well.
I was out of town with the company.
Ask anyone here.
- do you know another woman-- - there were no others.
I--i can show you logs, photocopies of fan letters, women who sent cortland pictures, - their underwear-- - they didn't mean anything to him.
But whatever connection you had with cortland was severed when he died.
Not the copycat's.
Every time she kills, it reinforces their love.
That is, of course, unless you help us stop her.
He sent me a letter a few months before he--he was I knew it wasn't meant for me, because it was addressed to "my dove.
" He never called me that.
- do you still have it? - no.
I burned it.
Did the text reveal anything about the woman? The text was a joke.
Usually his prose was seamless and beautiful, but This was Pedestrian and crude.
You never asked him who this dove was? I thought there were no secrets between you.
You've never been in love, have you? Victim's maxine chandler.
Neighbors say she's lived here her whole life, all 28 years of it, anyway.
How many kids does she have? Well, none of her own.
Runs a day care.
The guy that called 911 came here to drop off his toddler, found maxine in her bedroom.
Coroner's in there with her now.
You check all entry points? Yeah.
No damage, no tool marks.
Same as the first.
Now that we have two victims, we have data we can compare.
We should see what victimology can tell us.
I'll get j.
To bring us the files on the first victim.
What'd you find? Well, i put the time of death around 2 a.
m.
Victim was struck multiple times with a blunt object.
Signs of penetration, fluids.
Same post-mortem mutilation? Same, but, uh, different.
I wish i could say this was about the unsub's disorganized behavior or mounting rage.
It doesn't feel that way.
No, they definitely mean something.
- can i have your pen? - yeah.
What is it? I'm not sure.
- she did this.
- what do you mean? The unsub.
She made these dots like this before she made the puncture wounds.
That's why the coroner found paper in the wounds.
It was a template.
The angel maker did it from memory, but she needed a guide to get it right.
We need to go back and re-examine each of the patterns.
Where's reid? Here's another one to dove-- november 2, 2006.
- same thing? - yeah.
"weather is good here.
Out in the garden all day.
Birds land on the fence.
The moon is full now.
" He got an hour a day in a concrete yard.
There was no garden.
There were no birds.
Death row haiku.
I mean, you have to try to write this bad.
I think he did.
He tried very hard to put each word, each letter, even, in the right order.
So it's a code.
This steganographic method would allow him to write letters that don't appear enciphered.
The real message would be hiding in plain sight.
What do you need to crack it? The ability to clone myself and a year's supply of adderall.
I'll put on the coffee.
Small towns suck for victimology.
Too much overlap.
I've got both women at the same church, same doctor, same grocery store.
She's mimicking the angel maker.
Maybe we should look at his victims.
Yeah, but there's a disconnect.
The angel maker chose women because they excited him sexually.
The copycat's satisfaction isn't sexual.
Now it's in perfectly re-creating the murders.
So what she looks for in a victim is someone who's easy to kill.
Which, for her, means easy access to their homes.
What did delilah grennan do for work? She made jewelry, sold it out of her home.
So they both had home-based businesses.
A stranger could walk in off the street and be a prospective customer.
Unsub poses as a client, maybe uses the bathroom, Cracks the window, so she can get back in later.
Let's check their business records and see who came by on the day of the murders.
No matching names.
Sky's so clear here, huh? Never see stars like this in d.
c.
It's beautiful.
Oh, my god.
The puncture wounds on the victim's stomachs represent constellations.
Constellations? Don't tell me this guy was following the zodiac.
No, these are from a family of constellations known as the heavenly waters.
Well, i guess we know how he came up with the nickname.
That's why he'd open up all the windows after each kill, so their souls could be released into the sky.
Delphinus, the dolphin; equuleus, the little horse.
- anything sound familiar? - his origami things.
There are 9 constellations in the heavenly waters.
The angel maker killed 6.
Yeah, our unsub continued where he left off.
First she did vela, and then last night she did carina.
The only one left is columba, the dove.
One more kill and she completes his set.
She knew the meaning of the stomach wounds, something even we didn't know.
She must have been a lot closer to ryan than we thought.
They weren't just close.
They were in love.
How'd you crack it? I profiled the author.
Cortland ryan was on death row with several high-ranking members of the aryan brotherhood.
He got the code from the aryans? Either that or he read a lot of 16th-century literature.
The aryans liked to use a cipher based on a So it's a binary code.
Yeah.
Bacon used a 21-letter alphabet.
This one's 24.
Each letter is assigned a bit string of 5 binary digits.
This combination yields Normally you'd use a computer to run all these combinations, But it was quicker just to do it longhand until i found the right one.
He's so lifelike.
Now we don't have a complete record of their correspondence, but i was able to make a chronology.
The woman he calls "dove" established contact shortly after the trial.
"my dearest cortland, thank you for writing back to me.
The day the verdict was read, we shared a silent moment" "i knew then there was a force willing us together.
"every time i see you, i feel warmed as if by the sun, And yet i fear if i come too close," i'll be consumed by your fire.
" "ever since your visit, i am crazed with thoughts of you.
"already you've entered my dreams.
Each time you appear to me, i'm embraced by a feeling of trust and belief," As if i've known you all my life.
" "as always, i am touched by your words, "but i long to see you again.
Days pass quietly, one into the next "my dove" "i can think of little else" My secret wife If only they would let us marry All appeals are lost I could finally hold your hand The guards celebrated my defeat by clearing out my cell Here is my face Possessions matter little to a condemned man "they die with you,the only man who will ever truly see me.
" But i can't leave this world before seeing your face one last time.
"i will bring a part of you back into the world, And forever you will watch over us from the stars.
" What do you think she meant by that last line: i will bring a part of you back? The murders? She brought him back to life.
What if she was talking about his child? Well, she did say "us"-- watch over us from the stars.
She used the semen samples to plant evidence, not to get pregnant.
What if she did both? Well, if she actually had his kid, we might be able to track her through birth records.
Agent hotchner? We just got a report of a woman attacked in her house by a female assailant.
Is she ok? Sounds like it, but i can't say the same for the attacker, though.
Neighbors heard cries for help, pretty soon half the block was on her.
The victim was coming home from work, said the suspect approached her in her driveway.
Asked to use the phone to call a tow truck.
She let her in the house? That's when the suspect jumped her.
That's not our unsub's m.
o.
Maybe she was rushing it, trying to finish off the last victim.
That's shara.
You know her? Shara carlino.
Rossi and i already interviewed her.
She's cortland's number-one fan.
Her alibi is solid.
She's not our unsub.
Shara Why? It worked for her.
Why not for me? I just want us to be together again.
Ok, there were 463 children born in the lower canaan area between 2006 and 2008, So if you want me to find baby angel maker, we're gonna have to narrow this down.
All right, well, reid still has more letters to decode, but he did find a phrase: I knew even before they told me that the future had taken root.
Taken root? Sounds like someone got good news.
Date of conception.
And the date of that letter? Uh, january 7, 2007.
Ok, so we fast-forward 9 months.
- uh, 10 months, actually.
- really? I know.
It was news to me, too.
Ok.
So we'll search birth records from august to september 2007.
How's that? We'll do single mothers only, in case she wanted to keep the father a secret, You know, didn't want to brag: "oh, your baby daddy's a third-grade teacher? Well, mine likes to poke people in the stomach with tools, so there.
" There.
9 names.
Now that's a little more manageable.
Hannah dreyfus was in an auto accident.
She could barely walk.
Shannon conway moved away when the plant closed a year ago.
Any other names you recognize? - no.
- i don't--whoa.
What is it? Well, this one here sounds familiar, but i can't really place it.
Chloe kelcher.
Chloe kelcher.
That is familiar.
Chloe kelcher.
She was on the jury.
Well, that makes sense.
She would have been exposed to the case evidence, seen firsthand what he did to his victims.
That's when she fell in love with him, sitting across the courtroom every day.
Well, it's one thing to have a relationship with a killer, it's another to become one.
There might have been an incident that prompted the transformation.
I think i know what it was.
It's a death certificate.
Microvesicular steatosis.
Her baby died at the hospital.
- clear! - clear.
She's not here.
All right.
We all know what the end game is.
She's looking for her final victim.
She may have already chosen one.
Let's tear this place apart, look for anything that might tell us who she's targeted.
Look at this.
She did everything she could to deny the truth.
What, that he was a killer? That they'd never be together.
Note the view.
Daddy's watching.
It must have devastated her to think that she could hold on to ryan By having his child and then lose the baby.
Completing his murders became the only way she could hold on to him.
Not the only way.
Well Guess that answers that.
I assume that's who i think it is.
Got an appointment book here.
Meetings with delilah grennan and maxine chandler the day of each murder.
Sheriff, have you found her tools or the gun? Nothing yet.
She has something this morning: faye landreaux, 162 north-- North red river drive.
She's a cpa.
She does my taxes.
- she work out of her house? - yep.
Let's go.
That's it.
'85 volkswagen.
Chloe's here.
Car's still warm.
We got to be right behind her.
Her windows are closed.
That's a good sign.
Well, my team's ready.
Let's get in there.
Sheriff, we didn't recover a gun at chloe's house.
We have to assume she's armed.
Well, so are we.
If you storm in now, she'll shoot, and chances are she'll start with your accountant.
What do you think, guys? I think you should look for an open window.
Sheriff, i need you to bring all your vehicles around to the front, Facing forward with lights off, and i need a megaphone.
Hotch, i don't think you can get through to her.
No, but maybe you can.
Profile's clear.
You can't talk this woman down.
No, but just to occupy her.
If we're right about the m.
o.
She's left a window open somewhere.
Morgan will find a way in.
We just need to buy him some time.
Hit the lights.
Chloe, this is the fbi.
We know you're in there, and we know what you're trying to do.
What are you doing? What are you doing? Don't move, bitch, or i swear to god, i will split you in two.
Please, don't do this.
Roll over.
Roll over.
Roll over! I know you think that finishing what cortland started will bring you closer to him, But first you should know who he really was.
Don't worry.
There's a much better place for you.
I know you thought you were special, but the truth is, The same things he wrote to you, he wrote to many other women.
I've seen the letters.
Dozens read the same lines: without the flesh, there is only the soul.
You don't need to touch me to feel the love i have for you.
Does that sound familiar? Cortland wasn't who you thought he was.
He--he was a narcissist, chloe.
He wasn't capable of loving anyone but himself.
To carla kettinger, he wrote, ever since your visit, i am crazed with thoughts of you "already you have entered my dreams.
" "each time you appear to me" "i am embraced by a feeling of trust "and belief, As if i've known you all my life.
It's clear to me now that you are my fate.
" we are destined to be together.
" "and when i am gone, that will not change.
"i will live on in you.
In death, our union will be eternal.
" "all appeals are lost.
The guards celebrated my defeat by clearing out" No, no, no.
Don't speak.
Don't talk.
I'm gonna get you out of here, ok? "possessions matter little to a condemned man, "but i cannot leave this world without seeing your face one last time.
" Ok, that window over there.
I want you to go to that window.
It's gonna be ok.
Ok, go, go, go.
It isn't your fault that he made you feel these things.
It isn't your fault your baby died.
No! It's over, chloe.
We have faye.
You have nowhere to go.
I think we got some tear gas.
I'm assuming it's still good.
We're not gonna need it.
She doesn't have any place to go.
Well, maybe she'll do us all a favor and put herself down.
She's not gonna do that, either.
She's not done.
Chloe, drop the gun.
Chloe, drop the gun.
Damn it, lady, drop it! I'm coming to you, baby.
Hotch.
What did she do? We took her victim.
She had to complete his work.
Wendell berry said, "the past is our definition.
"we may strive with good reason to escape it or to escape what is bad in it," But we will escape it only by adding something better to it.
" I made these for your flight.
Thank you.
- it's small thanks, but-- - my recipe.
I'm sorry you had to go through all this again.
I suppose we never stop going through it, but Maybe now.
Hopefully.
She gonna be ok? Yeah, she'll be fine.
Maybe you got to sit with the past before you can walk away from it.
Thank you, sheriff.
Thank you.
Anyone get directions back to the airstrip? Town's only got one road.
We'll find it.
Yeah, morgan doesn't like to follow directions.
You didn't know about that? Yeah, he likes to vibe it.
Ok, smart ass.
You drive.
Oh, great.
- thank you.
- for the flight.
What? Just gonna grab my bag.
You're not coming? I, uh, think i'm gonna drive.
Oh, it's over 7 hours back to quantico.
I really shouldn't be flying.
I've done that drive before.
You'll see a lot of pretty country along the byways.
You might consider Stretching it out a day or two.
Maybe i will.
Thanks.