Man: now, from these experiments, A few factors became evident.
One was the realization That serial killers have been with us Since the dawn of man.
Please, let him go.
Take whatever you want, take anything, But please let my son go.
My name is professor james fallon.
I'm a scientist-- neuroscientist-- And i study the human brain.
It is a complex and sometimes lethal machine.
In a blind experiment, colleagues sent me And i had no idea who these brains belonged to.
Some were normals, some were schizophrenics, And some were killers.
I analyzed all of them, were the brains of psychopaths.
And it turned out that, indeed, These 5 were the brains of serial killers, Some of whom you know.
In studies such as these, One looks at the biological factors [gunshots.]
That is, the genetics and also the brain pathology.
The 5 brains we identified All had damage to the orbital cortex, Which is right above the eyes.
Now, high-risk allele of the monoamine oxidase a, The maoa gene May also be present in these people, And that's key.
Now, under the effects of the high-risk gene, The brain of the psychopath was bathed In way too much serotonin during fetal development.
As an adult, This brain is now numb To seratonin's calming effects.
The first dangerous elements are now in place.
The damage is done.
Now, this is a recipe for catastrophe.
So when the fetus reaches the day of labor, The potential serial killer is born.
Mom! uhh-- Mom! [gasps.]
Prentiss: hey, how was your weekend? Uh, scary yet informative.
was the whole family killed? Hudson, this is dr.
spencer reid.
Field agent anne hudson.
The, uh, father is serving in iraq.
his family buried over there.
Buried? The neighbors heard the dog barking, came over, And he was scratching at the grave.
Lucy, their oldest child, she's still in her swimsuit.
What does the father know? Hudson: some of it.
he was on patrol.
Took his unit a couple of days to reach him.
He arrives today.
Last year the williams family Was killed and found exactly the same way.
They lived in newport news.
The father, dan williams, was also serving overseas.
Now, the police are overwhelmed And getting serious heat from the military.
We need some answers fast.
Jj: as do the media.
They're already calling this the work of a serial killer.
They're right.
it is.
But why bury them? I mean, it can't be to hide the bodies.
Rossi: it's a sign of remorse.
And when they're done being remorseful, This will happen again.
[groans.]
[gasps.]
Morgan: "man usually avoids attributing cleverness to somebody else, Unless it's an enemy.
" Albert einstein.
Hotch: no sign of a struggle.
Unsub holds a gun to one of her kids' head.
What can she do? Footprints belong to paul.
Somehow he managed to get away.
Mom gets it first, then the youngest.
He hides in the master bedroom, The unsub finds him and shoots him.
And carries him out to the backyard.
But not the mother.
she's dragged out.
It's quick and proficient.
For the mother and the boys, maybe.
But lucy's drowned and not shot.
Why the change in m.
o.
? [airplane.]
Morgan: f-22 raptor.
Yeah.
it's about to get way louder and much busier.
Tomorrow is langley's The father of the first family killed--dan williams, Where is he now? He put in for another tour of iraq.
An i.
e.
d.
killed him Whoever did this Knew both fathers were serving overseas.
Laura downey's wedding rings are missing.
Any other valuables? We'll have to ask the husband.
From the williams home, Only jewelry and watches were missing.
The unsub only took what he can carry, Which means he's most likely on foot.
There was a photo on the wall in the kitchen.
I'd like to see it.
Sure.
There's no sign of sexual assault In the williams case.
what about lucy? Nothing on the coroner's report.
Multiple suspects? The mother was dragged out of the house.
If it had been multiple suspects, They probably would have carried her.
He knew the father was absent, Therefore the dominant threat was absent.
So we could be looking for a single suspect.
No sign of forced entry.
No need.
lucy was in the pool, Back door was open.
the unsub walked right in.
That means lucy probably died last.
In both cases the girls were suffocated And not shot.
i don't think it's a coincidence.
[cell phone rings.]
Hey, garcia.
you're on speaker.
We just got a call From virginia super max prison.
One of the inmates there Has received 2 envelopes in the last 2 days.
First envelope had clippings of the newport news killings.
Second envelope had media clippings of the downey family.
In the second envelope was a note saying, "look at what i've done," and both pieces of mail Have been signed by "an admirer.
" Who's the inmate? That's the part that Karl arnold.
The fox? garcia: he's back.
Ok, thanks.
Family annihilator, absent father, wedding rings.
It's similar.
To what? aka the fox, Killed 8 families.
Just like this case, he took wedding rings, Only he took them as trophies.
Morgan: he'd hide in the bushes outside the homes.
And i watched them for a number of days.
Always at night.
Saw how they lived How they loved.
I would keep them apart until the last night.
Then i would bring them, one by one, Down to the basement, The youngest first.
The father last.
Why, karl? So he could see what happens To families When the head of household isn't strong.
Wives wither Children perish.
So, we're working with a copycat here? It's too early to assume anything.
It could bias the profile.
Not to mention the police, the media, and the military Would jump all over it.
Until we're positive, none of this information leaves the 7 of us.
Hotch, you gave evidence at arnold's trial.
I think you should go see him.
I'd like to take prentiss with me.
Let's go.
Have garcia check on all of arnold's prison correspondence And visitors for the last 4 years.
Ok.
captain joseph downey has arrived back at the station.
Jj: captain downey, please, sit.
Thank you, i'm fine.
Tell me everything.
At around 9:30 Your neighbors called police when I'm sorry.
Sir.
We believe it was the work of a serial killer.
I'm sorry.
my neighbors, uh, jack and penny-- Captain downey Your family was murdered.
All of them.
[gasping.]
Is there someone you'd like us to call? Uh, call, um--no, no.
i, uh I--i'd like to go home now.
Captain downey.
captain downey.
captain d-- Ok.
Ok.
I'm sorry.
I'm so sorry.
[sobbing.]
So why wait a year to send karl a note, Unless they were communicating the whole time? That's the first thing we need to find out.
But karl has a big ego.
He's gonna want to answer a question with a question.
The first thing he's gonna want to know Is why i'm not wearing my wedding ring.
And then he will turn his attention to you.
So that's why you brought me along.
Your presence will throw him off guard.
Then he's gonna want to describe to you in graphic detail Every sexual act he committed with the families.
To freak me out? To pull you into his fantasy.
Control, open on 16.
[buzzer.]
Keep your eyes forward.
[prisoners hooting, laughing, and catcalling.]
More than anything, he's going to want to see the images of the children.
We can't give him that.
We have to give him something or we'll get nothing from him.
Come on! [banging on glass.]
[barking.]
Isn't that, uh-- Garrett pain.
that's reinforced glass.
Easy for you to say.
he tore apart 14 women.
Guard: open on 15.
[buzzer.]
[prisoner laughing.]
Second prisoner: whoa, baby! Hello, karl.
Agent hotchner.
I wasn't informed you were bring in a, uh They just said two agents.
This is agent-- Emily Prentiss.
I know all about you.
If this unsub's copying the fox, Then we profile him like the fox.
Karl arnold worked as a psychologist's assistant, right? Yeah.
which made it easy for him to watch, target, And learn about the victims from a distance.
Yeah, it also made him hard to find.
Like the fox, our man here found a way To hide in plain sight.
But he's pulling from Williams a medic, downey an army captain.
Someone knew of that military connection.
Both families were attacked within a month of the fathers being deployed.
Gave them time to settle in, Get comfortable that the fathers weren't there.
And once inside the home, the fox would live with the families And then become the father.
But not this unsub.
He just walked in and dispensed with the family.
Living with them wasn't part of the fantasy.
Hudson: agent rossi.
The picture you requested.
Thanks to you, we pulled some prints off it.
And all the prints were on lucy.
The bullet hit the father dead center.
The prints match that of the newport news killings.
It's the same killer.
Family annihilators like the fox, they start with one victim.
And once they feel capable, They move on to a second victim.
They don't start with entire families.
There are more victims.
we just haven't found them yet.
Karl, it appears you have a fan.
Admirer.
Not a fan.
Big difference.
right? Is this the first time you've been contacted by your admirer? I have many fans.
Even my own website.
Don't you? You'd be astounded At some of the questions they ask.
I make a log of all of them.
Would you like to read some? I would love to.
You'd love to? Yes.
Here.
Look.
Maybe later.
Your admirer is taking wedding rings, Just like you.
But maybe not for the same reason.
Like how you took all of mine.
You took mine.
But i see you lost yours.
Or was it one ring for each family? How'd you come to lose your ring? [laughs.]
wait, don't tell me.
A casualty of the job.
My job is what put you in here.
True.
But then, it's the children Who suffer most.
wouldn't you agree? You'd know more about that than me.
Which is why you came to me.
I can help you with that, agent hotchner.
I certainly can.
But i'll need to see those photos.
May i? A word? Is there a problem, emily? There's no problem, karl.
We cannot show him these.
These images will be his undoing And our way in.
But they're not just images.
That's exactly what they are.
We can't use lucy like that.
It's a tradeoff we have to make.
So, we are using a dead 12-year-old girl in a bathing suit As a bargaining chip? for what? To him it's not just a photograph.
It's much, much more, and we need to know what.
Look, i'm I've never done this before.
And you don't have to now.
Yes, i do.
All right.
when i feel he's ready to talk, I'll leave the room.
You get him talking.
Whatever he does, whatever you feel, Just stay on script.
We need to know why he killed those families.
Garcia: he's had a smattering of visits, A couple of whack jobs contact him, But nothing as direct as this admirer person.
Jj: how are we doing on the prints on the picture? Oh.
i'm still running them.
How are you holding up? Military families, they always fear the worst.
They know their men may not return, But this-- To see a father lose so much.
I wish i had something for you.
I truly cannot find a damn thing That connects these families.
Geographically, both of them Are thousands of miles away from their family.
Communication's all they had-- Emails, phone calls, letters.
But that's military communication.
Even between families, it requires a kind of juice i'm not allowed to use.
Come on.
you hacked into the fbi database.
And they gave me a job.
And i like my job.
And i like my life.
All right, i'll make some inquiries.
Ok.
do that.
take care.
Bye.
So lucy dies last, alone.
This by itself doesn't really mean anything, But when we look again at the williams file, We notice that the majority of the foreign fingerprints Came from karen williams' room, Which means the unsub spent most of his time in there with karen.
Then he must have separated her from the rest of the family.
Lucy downey was already in the pool.
That much was done for the unsub.
Then this unsub is driven by some other kind of compulsion, Some other need.
Hotch was right.
this isn't a coincidence.
It's a possible signature.
Sir, i know that, but two families have died.
No, i realize this breaks protocol, but-- No, all we want is to stop this from happening again.
Sir, i promise you, agent garcia is the best we have.
Ok.
thank you.
We need to look at each of the victims as a hub, With lives outside of their own families.
Well, each one of them has their own connections outside the family.
School, friends, tutors, business colleagues.
And each one of these people Are considered access points back to the family.
That could take weeks.
Well, you have time.
From remorse to the desire to kill again The unsub will go through a gamut of emotions.
It could be another year before the unsub feels the desire to kill again.
As horrific as these crimes are, This city doesn't have the resources to commit that amount of time.
We have full access to all military records for the fathers.
Well, now at least We have access to the main hub between families.
The dads.
All right, well, let's find out What connects them.
Stand up.
You want to see, don't you? Very much.
We're gonna show you.
[buzzer.]
This is the home of the downey family.
There were 3 children.
How old are the children? a girl and two boys.
Where were they found? Over there.
Buried.
Interesting.
Laura, the mother, and the two boys were killed In the house.
The daughter? This is where the mother and the youngest son were killed.
The other boy was shot in the bedroom closet.
Where's the father? Prentiss: overseas.
The killer knows this.
He knows everything about this family, And he watches their every move To be sure he achieves what he needs.
[chuckling.]
You have no idea how he knows The father is gone Or how he targets these families, And the how.
That's the key.
The how Is why he Was able to catch me.
You watched the families for days.
Weeks.
I got to know them.
But not your guy.
He doesn't need weeks.
if he did, he'd stay longer.
Why? So he can enjoy them.
But what i don't understand-- Is why he didn't separate the children.
Exactly.
That way you have more control.
no room for error.
Why he didn't put the boys in separate rooms and say, If you cry I'll have to kill mommy.
Tell me How did the girl die? She was drowned.
Yet the others were shot.
May i see her? What's so special about the girl? To suffocate her.
To feel the life leave her body Means everything to the man who did this.
To you, maybe, but not to this killer.
Not in the same way.
All i did was show them how weak fathers could be.
That's all.
Every child you killed you abused physically.
For this man, there is no sexual gratification.
At least i spared the fathers The grief of living.
[breathing hard.]
Please Please don't do this.
Come on.
let's get you cleaned up.
Dani! didn't i tell you to always lock the door! Nick, cleats off! Dani! where are you? [dani breathing hard.]
Dani? [breathing hard.]
Mom? [gasping.]
Please don't-- Please Mom The girl was suffocated, not shot, right? Hudson: yes.
Just like the other two.
Her name is dani.
she's 14.
Morgan: and the father? Afghanistan.
Does this rule out remorse? Yes, it does.
So what is it now? The escalation between kills Indicates a major psychological break.
How is it escalated? The timeframe between kills Has gone from a year to just 3 days.
For the unsub, something has dramatically changed.
Some kind of major external stressor forced this unsub Into feeling the need to kill again without any remorse.
Mirror neurons and stressors Relating to the unsub's past May have triggered this, The strongest of which is smell.
[airplanes.]
That sound.
The williams were killed a year ago.
Were there any military maneuvers going on at langley at that time? The annual air show, but nothing as big as this.
Arnold: he's killed again, hasn't he? Luckily for me.
Luckily? Now we're alone.
You stated that the families don't know the killer.
why? Now we wait, right? you and i, See if myadmirer contacts me.
He will.
Yours was one of the first cases i studied.
Really? Mm-hmm.
I've been fascinated ever since.
With what? You.
[chuckles.]
[chuckles.]
And now You want to know what i did To the children.
Don't you? Yes.
I can show you.
I can show you exactly what i did to them.
Tell me.
Children are so precious.
So clean.
But they need guidance.
Especially the girls.
Why? Girls have much more to lose Than boys.
It's a fact the female body can handle pain much better.
What did you do to them? I showed them What men Their fathers and brothers Are capable of.
And what is that? You sure you want to know? Yes.
Morgan, if the langley air show is the stressor, Then karl's admirer doesn't fit the profile.
A psychopath suffering a major psychological break Doesn't brag about it, hotch.
There was nothing you could have done That would have saved that family today.
Well, that's if i'm right about the profile.
I think you are.
Karl's admirer doesn't have anything to do with these killings.
Well, either way, we need to know who is.
Hotch, i want you to stay with him and find out So we can stop this son of a bitch.
I plan to.
Once i killed the children, It always amazed me How little The father fought the inevitable.
Which was what? Dying.
I'm trolling through the williams' emails, Satellite phone calls, land line phone calls, Family photos, their life, all of it.
What about the downeys? They're up next, and there's a ton to go through.
Fingerprints, garcia? zip.
They're--they-- there's nothing here.
I'm sorry, folks.
Garcia, widen the search.
Morgan, i already did.
vicap combines every database In this country.
we're as wide as we can go.
Abuse can have a long-term effect on any child's brain, But for the abused child who has the high-risk gene And the orbital cortex damage, The combination is devastating.
All right, this air show is military.
These fathers are all soldiers fighting a war on foreign soil.
We know that none of these graves are a sign of remorse.
Hey, guys.
look at these graves.
What are they reminiscent of? Mass graves.
Exactly.
which would indicate The unsub experienced early pubescent mirror neurons Reflecting events similar to the one they're creating.
I think this unsub was born into conflict.
But where was he born into conflict? When was the last time we saw anything like mass graves in the u.
s.
? We haven't.
not in our lifetimes.
Not within our borders.
Vicap is national, not international.
Garcia, international databases? Interpol is the biggest.
if they did it, they're in it.
It's pretty obvious that he's done this before, But the question is where and why.
Karl, i never thought that you'd be this honest.
It takes a good woman To make an honest man.
And anyway, let's face it-- She's prettier than you.
Karl, do you know why you killed all those families? I've already told you why.
No, you told me how, not why.
Hotch: and the reasons why, in this case, Are very different than they were for you.
Prentiss: they're very, very different.
And as you so eloquently have been pointing out to agent prentiss, All of your motivations were about sex.
Motivations you learned from your father.
You really have Done your research on me, Emily.
I'm flattered.
You're also filled with feelings Of extreme self-hatred.
It must be distracting Working with someone so beautiful.
You forced those men to watch their children die, And here's why, karl.
Here's why you are what you are.
What i would do to you.
By killing the fathers last, You were killing your own father, And ultimately yourself, Over and over again.
This isn't over, agent hotchner.
At least not for you.
Wait, hotch.
For karl, it's all about the fathers.
In this case, it's all about the girls.
They die last.
They're laid out last.
none of them are shot.
None of them show any signs of sexual motive.
What if we applied that logic to these killings? That's something we hadn't considered.
Why would we? it's so rare.
What is? The killer's a woman.
A woman? i'll let morgan know.
Karl, just now you said That this wasn't over for me.
What did you mean by that? [chuckles.]
He's just getting warmed up.
It's just You don't see it.
But you will.
All right, we'll work it in right now.
Prentiss thinks the unsub might be a woman.
That's why we couldn't find a sexual motive.
Wherever she's from, her father's a military man.
Derek, i've got a hit.
interpol.
The first--zagreb, 1998.
A woman and her 8-month-old baby are both killed.
And then 2 years later, The same prints show up in modena, italy, Then 2007, london, england, young couple, both shot.
You were right.
she's killed before.
Zagreb is the capital city of croatia.
Is that significant? Between 1991 and '95 they fought A bitter battle for independence.
Serbian forces tried to ethnically cleanse Over 40,000 bosnian muslims.
Then at some point within the last 2 years, she moved to america.
She's on the run.
and ran right into a city Filled with military families.
The only mass graves reminiscent of the ones the unsubs created Were found all over bosnia after the war, But none of them rival that of srebrenica.
Garcia: dutch u.
n.
forces created a safe haven for refugees.
Reid: then in 1995, bosnian serb forces surrounded the town.
Rossi: a psychopath born in the middle of that conflict-- That's not a good mix.
Reid: she's exacting her life experiences onto the victims.
You think this woman was there? Well, think about it.
langley's filling up with civilians And military vehicles just like srebrenica.
Can you determine her age? Based on victimology, Each of these girls is no older than 15.
The balkan war lasted between '93 and '95, So if the girls represent the unsub, She's somewhere in her late 20s.
Hudson: how did srebrenica end? Reid: it was a massacre.
[shouting in croatian.]
[speaking croatian softly.]
[speaking croatian.]
[shouting.]
Hotch: i don't think this woman has anything to do with karl.
I encouraged him.
Ohh.
I flirted with him.
[clears throat.]
Made it personal.
Getting intimate with a killer is So different.
It's what we do.
Yeah.
but There's no fixing how i feel right now, is there? No.
But it helped the case.
And you did what you had to.
Agent hotchner.
Before you go, There's one final thing i'd like to share with you.
[sighs.]
let's just get this over with.
This unsub is armed and suffering A major psychological break, And she will not hesitate to kill again.
She's white and in her 20s.
We believe she came to the u.
s.
a few years ago.
She's likely on foot.
She could be eastern european.
She may speak little to no english.
Now, if you manage to apprehend or corner her, Do not underestimate this woman.
She will try to fight her way out.
The downeys live less than a mile from the foresters, Which means she's somewhere in this area.
I see something.
Wait.
Wait a minute.
could it be? They're all connected to the same site.
Every media outlet is being informed Of the clear and present danger to the public.
Thank you very much.
Garcia: ok, guys, i really have got something.
All of these photos, every one of them, Was uploaded to a user website called photobug.
Photobug? Yeah.
members can upload photos, videos, email, Webcam, chats.
i use it all the time.
Every one of these families extensively used this site For months, even years.
All these family photos were printed by photobug.
Isn't it protected? Not from the people who run it.
It's a great way for military families to keep in touch.
And a perfect way to target a family Without anybody's knowledge.
They outsource work to people All over the country.
So i took your profile, Hacked into their employee database, Came up with this list of potentials, One of which is a match that screams homicidal bitch.
Her name's miranda dracar, she was an orphan, Born in sarajevo during 1982.
She was adopted by a family in srebrenica.
Morgan: let's go.
Clear.
Clear.
The foresters.
Morgan.
The unsub's next victim.
He's a marine.
Usmc, first battalion, engineer.
Jennifer, call your contact.
Jj: sir, i'm gonna need access to every piece of data On u.
s.
marine sergeant young.
it may save his family.
Girl: why are you always so slow? we're late.
come on.
I am, i am.
So you think you found my admirer.
A woman.
No.
we found the killer.
With my help, of course.
Your admirer is exactly like everyone who contacts you--lost.
My love, your guy is far from lost.
We're done.
So is he.
"look at what i have done.
" It's quite brilliant, you know? We will find whoever sent you that.
No, agent hotchner, i rather think He's already found you.
[shouting in croatian.]
Uhh! uhh! Uhh! uhh! Ohh! [gunshot.]
Jj: morgan? I'm all right.
I'm all right.
Hotch.
Hotch.
I can't believe you can't see what he's doing.
What is going on? He's torturing him.
Who? It's great to see you squirm, agent hotchner.
Foyet.
[arnold laughing.]
He knew you'd come.
Ha ha ha ha ha! [prisoners shouting.]