Yo, hurry up! Don't start without me.
Move your ass.
come on.
I'm gettin' your damn beer.
Shut up! Shut up, woman.
shut up? Oh, me shut up, huh? Shut up, everyone.
[laughing.]
Will, is that you? Will? Here he comes.
Will? Ohh! ohh! Ohh! ohh! He's down.
Go on, get up.
Get up.
Don't be stupid.
We don't want any trouble.
Take whatever you want.
[crying.]
I don't care what you want.
There's no reason to hurt anyone.
Here it comes.
Woman: no! No.
That had to hurt.
How could you possibly Know what my reasons are? Our boy's trying to get up.
Which one of them belongs to you? Let me guess.
Woman: oh, please don't hurt him! please.
It could be her.
[man groans.]
[woman whimpering.]
Kiss your husband goodbye.
William Why are you doing this? Why?! Why not? Ooh! Did you get that? I got it, baby.
Uh-huh.
and how many dead? Ok.
yeah, we'll be there as soon as we can.
Thanks.
Well, i gotta go.
Let me guess.
don't get comfortable.
We've got 4 dead in a home invasion.
Where we headed? It's local.
southeast d.
c.
What was the cause of death? Jj: blunt force trauma.
no knife, no gun.
Have we been invited in? Yeah.
cops want us to meet them at the crime scene.
Isn't southeast where all that vandalism's been lately? Same area, yeah.
think they could be connected? I don't know.
i mean, the weapon doesn't exactly fit The typical m.
o.
of a home invasion killer.
Well, it's worth considering.
It's common for vandalism to escalate into violence.
Plus there's a lot of anger out there.
That neighborhood's mostly black working class.
Yeah.
now it's being gentrified While the people who live there are having a tough time.
Were the victims wealthy? Yeah, it was two couples.
The were both part of the influx of new wealth in the area.
Police report a robbery? Nothing was taken.
What race were the victims? One couple was white, the other black.
Not racially motivated.
Jj, find rossi and reid, tell them we leave in 5.
Well, if this is related to vandalism, an escalation.
So there's the potential for a lot more bodies out there? That's what i'm afraid of.
Morgan: kingman brewster jr.
said, "there is no lasting hope in violence, Only temporary relief from hopelessness.
" [sirens.]
Detective andrews? Hi.
jennifer jareau.
These are agents rossi, morgan, Hotchner, prentiss, and dr.
reid.
Thanks for getting here so fast.
What can you tell us? Looks like one of the victims was attacked When he got out of his car.
Meaning whoever did this probably used his keys To get inside and surprise the other victims.
Who found the bodies? The cleaning woman.
She's giving her statement now.
Dave, would you, morgan, and prentiss go inside.
We'll cover out here.
I know you're all used to this, But, uh, it's a hell of a sight in there.
Whoever did this ain't human.
The neighbors see anything? Oh, you know, the patrol cars Are even doubled in this area Because of the vandalism-- nothing.
The unsub would have to be extremely fast and efficient.
Look at this.
there's a pool of blood here and then drops As the victim moves toward the door.
How big was the victim? Well, if he was strong enough to move under his own power, You'd expect signs of a struggle.
And if not, there'd most likely be drag marks.
He was carried.
That's a lot of dead weight for one person to move alone.
There's no pool of blood on the porch, Which means they didn't have to set him down To open the door.
Victim one gets dropped here.
While number 2 comes around the corner To see what's happening, and The unsub attacks him here.
The female victims were probably here When the first attack occurred.
Which means somebody would have to control them pretty quickly.
How many unsubs are you thinking? At least one to move the body inside, Another one to take out man number 2, And one more to subdue the others.
Well, vandalism breeds a pack mentality.
If it is the same unsubs, We're looking at a group of 3, maybe 4.
These aren't kids.
They're too efficient.
There's a control and precision.
Juveniles are sloppy.
Prentiss: he's right.
There is nothing tentative about these kills.
There's no experimentation.
These guys know what they're doing.
I don't know.
What are you thinking? I can understand vandalism escalating into violence, But that's usually gradual.
And assault, a single murder maybe, But come on, this? This feels fully evolved.
September 3rd, their windows smashed.
September 14th, A new upscale clothing boutique was vandalized.
September 24th, Two different restaurants, Both catering to a wealthy clientele, Had their front windows smashed And their interiors torn apart, and finally, october 1st, A newly renovated townhome Was ransacked before the family could move in.
So they went from attacking public property To a private residence, but no victim.
The question is, what makes them move from thatto this? The vandalism targets were all symbols Of the neighborhood's changing makeup and economy.
Maybe there's something specific about these victims That set the unsubs off.
I've spoken to the victims' family members.
They've agreed to come in and help however they can.
Garcia, check social networking sites.
See if these unsubs have coordinated these attacks online.
If they dare tweet, i shall flush them out like a bird dog, sir.
We need to be asking how these unsubs Manage to not stand out in this neighborhood.
Each of these crime scene locations are a representation Of new wealth and status, But the area surrounding the crime scenes Are still populated by long-time residents Who are slowly being pushed out.
That's a lot of disenfranchised people Who are all part of the neighborhood makeup.
Most likely these unsubs don't stand out Because they're probably local themselves.
I don't know.
i'm with rossi.
I mean, anger i get, but this much violence? We're looking at at least 3 men With an incredible amount of rage.
Where do you hide that? Turner.
you care to tell the lady why it's october 14th And she's still not ready to move into her house? Not particularly.
Man: what did you just say? It's ok.
really.
No, it's not.
Why don't you apologize to the lady, Answer the question.
My apologies, ma'am.
Found a slight flaw in the foundation.
Hate to think of you home all alone at night, Suddenly the whole place Just collapses underneath you.
Ok.
Now get back to the drywall.
That's what i pay you for.
Let somebody else worry about the foundation.
I had garcia run records on anyone in the target area Who in the last year was foreclosed upon, filed for bankruptcy, Or applied for unemployment and then narrowed that list down To men between the ages of 25 and 45.
And? Victims' families are here.
I'm very sorry about your son.
We're looking to see if there's a pattern Or if your son's killing was truly random.
So, there were no threats that you knew of? No.
I understand this is very difficult for you.
We're just trying to make some sense of it.
Please.
Morgan: ms.
barnes, do you need some more time? Umthey said i could see wiiam's body if i wanted to.
I don't see what good could come from that.
It was just you and your brother? Our parents died a few years ago.
I'm sorry.
I know that sounds like something people say, Buti truly am sorry.
You deal with cases like this all the time.
Yes, i do.
So it's routine for you.
There's nothing routine about what you're going through, ms.
barnes.
Do you have brothers and sisters? I have two sisters.
What would you do if something like this happened to one of them? I would do everything in my power to catch the people who did it.
[growling.]
[the dead weather's treat me like your mother plays.]
[laughing.]
Will? Is that you? will? Check this out.
* who has got it figured out * Hey.
* left, right, left, right * Whoa, man.
* who's got it figured out, play straight * * tryin' to manipulate * Our boy's tryin' to get up.
Please, don't hurt him! That's pretty wicked.
Yeah.
Will.
Oh! oh! [song continues.]
Hey, come look at this.
What did you just say? What's his problem? Our boy's tryin' to get up.
Please, don't hurt him! Please.
I say we go out.
[song continues.]
[woman crying.]
Why are you doing this? Why?! Why not? Aah! Did you get that? I got it.
[heart beating rapidly.]
[whistles.]
You think? People might see.
So? I go first.
This your car? Yeah.
It's nice.
Look, i'm just picking up my girlfriend.
[whistles.]
What the hell, man! Shh.
Did anybody see anything? It's in the middle of the damn parking lot.
What about the security cam? It's only on the door.
Who's the lady over there? Manager.
she discovered the bodies When she came by to open up for the breakfast crowd.
I'll go talk to her.
Any idea who the victims are? Judging by the driver's license, One of them's a waitress here.
it says jessica miller, And the other one's probably doug taylor.
You can't tell for sure? Honestly, you can't make an i.
d.
By looking at them.
Hotch.
I didn't even know what it was at first When i pulled up.
They're definitely getting bolder.
These kills were in public.
If this is supposed to be about symbolism, it's not anymore.
This is a blue collar restaurant, the victim is a waitress.
There's no ideology behind this.
It's about violence and power.
They actually sat here and drank beer after the murders.
They're telling us that they don't care.
They're like those outlaws that ride into town And let you know the only way to stop them Is by killing them.
If that's what they want, i know plenty of cops Who'd be happy to oblige.
Detective, we need to keep our heads.
Meaning what? Meaning that this level of nihilism, This randomness, it can have a mirror impact.
Are you warning me not to go after some kind of revenge? All i'm saying is this level of brutality Is almost like a challenge from the unsubs, Trying to drag everyone down to their level.
And it's a natural reaction.
I'm just doing my job.
Let's head back.
we've got our profile.
[elevator dings.]
How bad? Bad bad.
You have company.
Ms.
barnes.
Hi.
Sorry for just showing up like this.
I heard on the news that there were more victims And i didn't know where else to get answers.
Please.
Thank you.
So is it true? was it the same people who killed william? Yes.
Do you have any suspects? No, but we do have a profile of who these men might be.
Two of our agents are giving it to the police right now And we're getting it to all the news outlets.
Can you explain it to me? Please.
Basically, these men are completely disenfranchised.
They feel like they have nothing to live for.
And they're looking for anyone or anything to blame.
Hotch: there's a lot of anger out there.
times are tough.
But even so, these men will stand out.
They'll look to provoke confrontation.
Any excuse, they'll take it.
They don't steal from their victims.
They don't sexually assault the women.
This is about violence for violence's sake.
It's almost contagious.
it's twisted.
But it's got its own momentum.
What we need to do is figure out how these men came together.
Rossi: we feel certain that they have some connection to southeast d.
c.
Hotch: they go unnoticed.
They don't seem out of place.
We have no prints from the crime scenes, So we believe that the unsubs wear gloves.
Dna testing could take weeks, And we don't have that kind of time.
The majority of the population of southeast is black, But if the unsubs work in this area, They could be any race.
Hotch: because of the physical nature of the murders And the amount of control these unsubs exert over their victims, We believe that these unsubs are large Or at least extremely physically fit.
And they have a pack mentality.
Canvass the local bars and restaurants.
See if there's a group of men who fit this description.
And these men will be obsessed with the media coverage.
Any chance to relive their crimes.
So stake out the past crime scenes.
There's a good chance that they'll revisit them.
They most likely come from troubled backgrounds, Broken homes, youth detention centers.
They probably bonded over their anger.
And now it's like they've become one person.
It's their whole identity.
See, these guys, they think of themselves As some type of gangsters, Like society's rules don't apply to them.
They equate violence with power and respect.
And that goes for self-respect as well.
What could they possibly get out of killing innocent people For no reason? People like this, they're not like you and me.
They don't feel empathy.
In a way, they only feel alive When they're creating fear and chaos.
And your profiles, they help catch these people? They do.
Thank you for helping me through this.
Of course.
Detective.
I just wanted to say that at the crime scene It was not my intention to accuse you of being unprofessional.
Yeah? It's just that i know what it's like To work a case that makes you question humanity, And it's not the worst thing to remind yourself To rise above it a little, or we lose ourselves.
I appreciate you giving the men the profile.
Oh, no.
Sir, i've got something.
I've been monitoring social networking sites To see if the unsubs communicate electronically.
Right.
there's a text that's blowing up.
I sent it to your phone.
There's over a thousand hits already.
It's a plan to vandalize cars and restaurants Around dupont circle.
When does the text say this is supposed to happen? Tonight, 9:00.
Dupont circle's not in the unsubs' usual comfort zone.
And it's not like these unsubs to share control.
[dialing cell phone.]
[line ringing.]
Detective andrews, this is agent hotchner.
I just sent you a text to which we've been alerted.
Right.
Absolutely.
we're on our way.
[sirens.]
Man on p.
a.
: you will be arrested if you do not disperse.
We got wagons at every entry point.
They're filling them up faster than i can bring them to holding.
What happened? My men went to make arrests, people started resisting, I called for reinforcements.
Do you know who the instigators are? There's no rhyme or reason i can tell.
Confiscate the cell phones.
When we get to the origins of the text message, You'll have your ringleaders.
They're still notifying families and processing most of the rioters.
Did garcia come up with anything? Yeah.
she was able to isolate the first 2 cell phones In the chain.
Detective, we don't think our unsubs are in there, But we'd still like to interrogate The possible ringleaders.
I don't think so.
But we need to eliminate them absolutely as suspects.
We can handle it on our own.
Rossi: we're not saying you can't.
Is there a problem? You guys had my men out there canvassing bars looking for adults When i could have been doing gang sweeps, going through juvenile records.
That would have been a waste of your time.
In case you hadn't noticed, those are kids out there.
We don't believe last night's riot Is connected to the murders.
Oh? how could it not be? Because the unsubs we're looking for are older.
They operate entirely out of southeast d.
c.
They exercise extreme control over their victims, And violence is up close and personal.
None of what happened here last night fits the profile.
Enough with the profile.
i got probably a million dollars worth of damage.
I got two cops injured.
Which was probably made worse by police overreaction.
Meaning what? I warned you.
cases like this, people get too emotional.
You're here as a guest of my department.
Rossi: we're only trying to help.
If you're so sure none of those kids are the killers, Why bother interrogating them at all? Because we need to be certain.
If we're right, if this is just some sort of teenage dare, I guarantee you that the unsubs Are going to respond very quickly.
I appreciate your insight, But we'd like to take things from here on our own.
Thank you for everything you've done.
You're gonna want to start with these 2 names.
You're not helping.
i want to speak to the officer in charge.
Ms.
barnes.
I need someone to tell me what's going on.
We're trying to figure it out.
Are those the ones who killed william? No, they're not.
But they started the riot.
They're just a bunch of stupid kids.
Yeah, who vandalize and attack people at random.
I told you these things have their own momentum.
Are you sure? I'm sorry.
So did you all have fun, huh? Do you even care that someone died? Ms.
barnes, you really need to calm down.
That's not true.
no, no one cares.
No one cares.
someone dies and it's all Just a game or a job and everyone just moves on.
That's not true.
people do care, and i care.
They killed my brother for no reason! Please.
Let me walk you outside and get you some air.
please.
Walk with me.
It's ok.
It's all right.
I've logged into police dispatch For the area you've isolated.
If anything's reported, we'll know when they know.
Wait, are we staying on the case? We all know that these unsubs are gonna react to last night's riot.
But emily's right.
they asked us to step aside.
Andrews is a good cop.
he's just too emotional right now.
If we don't stay on, with or without his permission, He and all the rest of us will regret it.
Where's morgan? Uh, he's with ms.
barnes.
Huh.
You sure you're gonna be all right? You know, i'm not crazy, really.
Tamara, you've been through a trauma, And you're processing a lot.
It's normal to lose it a little.
Thank you.
For everything.
I'm just doing my job.
No, you're You're a good person.
So how's this gonna end? What? The investigation.
i mean, what happens? Well, if i had to guess, Last night's riots-- our unsubs aren't gonna like it.
This is their whole identity.
They're not gonna like sharing the attention.
So more people are gonna die.
They're killing in a small area.
Our profile is solid.
Somebody will recognize them.
You don't think it's gonna be that easy.
I really need to get back to my team.
Yeah.
i'm sorry.
Thank you for, uh, driving me home.
You're welcome.
Agent morgan.
Do you think you can get these guys? We're closing in.
And they're bound to start feeling it.
See, guys like this, when they feel trapped, They most likely commit suicide by cop.
Good.
Where the hell do you think you're going? I talked to the beat cops.
They're getting word out to local businesses To keep an eye out for anyone who seems agitated By the news of last night's riot.
By now, andrews has to know That none of those kids are the unsubs.
Then he's bound to beef up police presence in the southeast.
We should be there, too.
The faster we can react, the more we can help.
Do you think the unsubs know about the riot? Front page news.
i don't know how they can't.
And if the profile's right? Their reaction's gonna be quick and it's gonna be brutal.
Basically, it's like knowing that lightning is gonna strike But not being able to pinpoint where.
[door closes.]
* the summer wind * * came blowing in * * from across the sea * * and lingered there * I'm sorry, you can't have that in here.
What? This? It's a liability issue, that's all, In case somebody gets hurt.
* and then we strolled * * that golden sand * no problem.
* two sweethearts and the summer wind * Hey.
Can we have a talk? Yeah.
what's up? Uh, first i would like to say that i love you, And i--i--the thing i love the most about you Is how much you care about people-- Garcia, what? What's going on? I think you need to cut contact with tamara barnes.
I didn't make contact with her.
She was at the police station.
Yeah, ok, look me in the eye and tell me That the first break in this case You don't run right to her and give her the news yourself.
Penelope, she lost her brother.
she just wants answers.
I get it.
i volunteer counseling these families.
I know what she's going through.
Then where is this coming from? Ok, let's just ignore the whole ethical dilemma, 'cause that's just too, too big.
And if you were to testify on this case, The whole thing would unravel If anyone were to find out that you're involved With a member of the victim's family.
Whoa, stop.
I love you, And i respect you.
you know that.
But right now you're way out of bounds.
I'm not involved.
The team is here working on a case, And you're with her.
You're involved.
For your information, She lost it back at the station, So i drove her home.
End of story.
But not for her.
derek, She's so sad and so confused and angry And desperately looking for anyone to swoop in and make it all better, And unless you're all in and can be there For every stage of the grieving process, You're just another reason for her to not trust the world.
She's simply trying to understand why this happened.
There is no why, and she'll make herself crazy trying to find one.
[footsteps approaching.]
Don't tell me.
Bar in southeast, 2 dead.
They're waiting for you.
I got to go.
Yeah.
[siren.]
What are you doing here? Detective, we can argue about this later.
Right now you have a crime scene and we're here to help.
They nailed the bartender's hands to the bar first.
Other bastard got off easier.
They just plain beat him.
I'm getting real sick of us being right And it just not mattering.
What? this is weird.
The unsubs are extremely physical.
They beat their victims mercilessly with blunt objects.
Why aren't these nails pounded in? Probably used a nail gun.
With all the gentrification and turnover in housing In the neighborhood, what's a common sight these days? Builders, contractors, and construction workers.
We wouldn't give it a second thought.
Morgan: wait a minute.
Killing 4 people in that first home invasion-- That never made sense to me.
Unsubs build to something like that.
What if this wasn't their first murder? The first two rounds of vandalism, they were typical.
Car windows smashed, restaurants with the plate glass broken.
But that last case, right before the home invasion, That was a random construction site.
A single-family townhouse.
Prentiss, you flagged it yourself.
Yeah, yeah.
[dialing.]
Hey, garcia.
I need the address on that townhouse that was vandalized.
I don't understand how we can help.
Sir, we believe that whoever vandalized your house Is responsible for the murders in the area.
Oh, i know.
we've read the papers.
But, honestly, that's not something we're gonna think about right now.
We also think it's possible That your home was vandalized for a reason.
What do you mean? May we? Yes, please.
Thank you.
We believe there may have been another murder Before the first one the police became aware of.
You think there might be a body hidden here, on our property? It's possible.
at the very least, the men we're looking for May have worked here.
Oh, my god.
Were there any issues with workers during construction? No, nothing.
Did anyone appear overly confrontational? I just had contact with our contractor, and he was friendly.
I understand people come and go during construction, But was there anyone at all that you may have noticed Suddenly wasn't around? Oh, no.
What is it? The contractor i mentioned After the vandalism, we called him to oversee the repairs.
He never called us back.
The police report said that every room In the house was destroyed except one.
Yeah, they smashed every room except the nursery.
that one they didn't touch.
We need to see it.
[door opens.]
This wall is structural.
I wouldn't ask you this unless i felt it was incredibly important.
I need to open up this wall.
No.
We can't live here and not know.
Ma'am, I promise you, even if i have to do every bit of the work myself, This wall will be repaired And it'll go right back to being exactly what you want.
Please? Ok.
This is agent emily prentiss with the fbi.
I need an scsi unit.
We've got a body.
I can't be here.
Let's move over here.
Is there someplace the two of you can stay? Yes.
we have friends i can call.
After you give the police a statement, They can take you to your friends' house.
Thank you.
Thank you.
You think they'll be ok? I don't know.
I mean, you redo your dream home, About to start a new chapter of your life, And then this? How did you know? The other crime scenes were brutal.
But it also had control.
They took their time, that type of m.
o.
Had to start before the home invasions.
This entire place was destroyed except this room.
why? Because they took the time to rebuild the wall Once they buried the contractor.
Exactly.
If they smashed this place up, He could have been discovered.
But still, a body inside the wall? It's like a builders tradition.
You leave a little something behind To send a message to the people who may do work down the road.
Front page of a newspaper.
A photo of the construction crew.
It's like a time capsule.
Ok.
Ok, so what would you need to rebuild this wall? Drywall, brickwork, Electrical? I'm gonna call garcia.
[line ringing.]
Hey, girl.
Hey.
Are we good? Yeah, we're good.
Ok.
What do you need? Ok, pull up the address of the townhouse that was vandalized.
Got it.
Ok.
give me work permits for the contractor.
That would bejames morris.
Is he our unsub? No, actually, i'm afraid he's our first victim.
Does it list morris' subcontractors? Yes, it does.
All right, i need all the names and addresses For whoever was hired to do the electrical, brickwork, and drywall.
That would be So they do live together.
Yeah.
5058 b street near anacostia, Particulars coming to younow.
Thanks, babe.
We were right.
They're a pack.
We go in first.
It's your case.
Police! Fbi! Move! Get him down! Ow! ow! Where are the other two? You gotta be kidding me, right? Dave.
You like that, sir? I got more.
Where are the others? Go to hell.
Garcia, i need vehicle information on all the residents.
Get him up.
Got it.
Apb--station wagon, D.
c.
plate I also need to know if they're registered on any jobs right now.
I got a visual on the station wagon Just south of 8th, heading toward half street, southeast.
That's right next to their current work site.
You know what gets me? See, we figured you were down and out, pissed off.
But you're out here working.
What is so god-awful about your life That you gotta take it out on the rest of the world? It was fun, boss.
Deploy tactical units Thanks.
We got 'em.
Forget him, morgan.
he's nothing.
Hotch: let's go.
[sirens.]
[tires screeching.]
How many we got? [sirens.]
[tires screeching.]
That ought to do it.
I got snipers up high, i got a team around back.
Once we're sure there's not a hostage inside, I'll give the order to breach.
You leaving? You've got this under control.
Is he just gonna walk away? Looks like it.
Just when i thought he was back on top of his game.
You got at least 2 dozen cops, All looking for revenge.
You got two psychopaths inside, Ready to play out their fantasy end.
You want to take your shot Take it.
Our job is done.
Is it time? What the hell, right? Just keep your head up and you hold this son of a bitch out front Like it's a gun.
[gunfire.]
Morgan: william shakespeare wrote, "these violent delights have violent ends.
" [patterson hood's heavy and hanging plays.]
* in the morning i found you * * i was fixing the alarm * * i called the papers before 9-1-1 * * now they're asking me questions * * about this thing that i found * * and i never heard you sing the words you put down * Hey.
Hey.
I just wanted to come by and let you know that it was over.
We got 'em.