Whoo! Come on.
Come on.
Sophia.
Honey.
Ooh! What is mommy feeding you? Oh, nice.
Give our daughter a weight complex.
Do you have a weight complex? Yes.
Let's go inside.
"though I wal in the midst of trouble, "you preserve my life.
"you stretch out your hand against the anger of my foes, "and with your right hand, you save me.
The word of the lord.
" Thanks be to god.
The body of christ.
Amen.
Amen.
The body of christ.
The body of christ.
Amen.
The blood of christ.
Daddy, can I have some of that? Not till you're 21 Or your first communion.
Mommy, my doll-- No! Ok, I'm taking this away from you.
Hey, ok, now is not the time to play.
After communion, we talk to jesus.
I don't want to talk to jesus! Well, try.
Listen, I know it's hard, but if you really try You' be-- Honey? Honey? Paul! Help! Oh, god! Please! Somebody help me! Somebody, please! Please help me! Please! Please help me! Daddy, are you all right?! Is anyone a doctor?! Call 911! Oh, no! Oh, please! Daddy! Take your daughter away! Now! Baby! Baby, come here! Come here.
Come here.
Come here.
Come on.
Paul.
Paul.
Paul! Paul! Call 911! This is captain paul collins.
He's the third victim in 2 weeks In providence, rhode island.
Captain? Yeah, he just returned home 2 weeks ago From his fourth tour in iraq.
He's a decorated war hero.
Was he targeted because he's in the military? No.
Just like the first two victims, he was targeted because he was convenient.
He was killed at a church during an early service.
No.
Just like the first two victneck was cut open,ed becasevered the carotid artery.
Bled out in a matter of moments.
Right in front of his daughter.
Murder in a church is highly symbolic.
Is there a religious agenda involved? The detective on the case, jake moreland, Ruled that out because of the first two victims.
The first victim, mike o'donnell, was found Under a sink in the men's room at a restaurant.
What kind of restaurant? Local place, white tablecloths and jug wine.
The second victim, karen lagrassa, was killed at the laundromat.
All 3 had their throats slashe Aside from m.
O.
, the victimology's all over the place.
It's like this guy doesn't care who he's killing, Just how.
And he's doing it in public Without compunction for who sees him.
Do we have a sketch? All anyone can agree on Is that it's a white male between 25 and 40.
Well, that narrows it down to all of providence.
Hard to fault the witnesses given how bloody these murders must be.
What bothers me is the cooling off period Is getting shorter and shorter, With no attempt to hide who he is or what he's doing.
I mean, an unsub this bold could be suffering from a major psychotic break.
I already asked detective moreland to pull recent releases On prisons and mental hospitals.
We need to get to providence asap.
Whether he's suffering a psychotic break or not, This could be the start of a spree.
And anyone is a potential target.
"show me a hero And I will write you tragedy.
" F.
Scott fitzgerald.
Why is he using a knife? Guns assure the highest number of fatalities.
If all he's interested in is quantity, He could be doing this more efficiently.
He could be training.
Spree killers often to dry runs Before they start their rampage.
Most spree killers have lost control by the time they begin.
They're always male.
And if they don't fall into the school shooter category, They're older, 40s and 50s, socially isolated.
The stressor's usually the dissolution Of their last social outlet.
George hennard was inspired by james huberty.
Between the two of them, they shot Well, if he's practicing for his mass murder, He's definitely getting bolder about it.
And bloodier.
Right now, the shock and awe of the bloodletting Seems to be what he's going for.
But soon, that won't be enough.
That makes sense with regards to his fantasy life.
If he is planning something big, He'll spend his day dreaming of it, Getting back at slights both real and imagined.
Without a specific target victim, We need to concentrate on the crime scenes And see what they tell us.
Prentiss, you take the laundromat.
I'll have detective moreland meet you there.
I'd like to take a look at the church If you don't mind.
Good.
Jj, you and morgan Interview captain collins' wife.
She got the best look at the unsub.
See what she remembers.
Reid and I will run point from the police station.
Agent rossi? You must be father kendellen.
Thank you for coming so quickly.
It's the lst we can do, father.
To be honest, I've been struggling to understand all this.
It's beenTrying.
I don't like to see crime tape In front of church doors.
I can't imagine how you feel.
Ash Wednesday's next week.
These doors should never be closed to the community.
To be honest, agent hotchner, When they told me bau was coming, I expected more than two agents.
The rest of the agents went straight to the crime scenes.
I believe there'll be information there That may determine where the unsub will strike next.
As soon as you can, I'd like you to meet Agent prentiss at the laundromat.
Yeah, sure.
Any idea on where he may hit next? We can double patrols.
It's honestly too early to tell.
Well, your gut must be telling you something.
Well, this far, he's struck at a restaurant bathroom, A laundromat, and a church.
He chooses his victims not out of preference, But of favorable circumstance.
With each kill he's growing bolder, Telling us he doesn't care who sees him.
So next time it'll be even more public.
Yes.
Our technical analyst Is compiling a list of public events That your department should be monitoring.
Garcia, aryou there? Wired for sound and ready for action.
What have you got so far? Well, you got your "sesame street on ice," Your harlem globetrotters, your beatles cover bands, Not to mention the dozens of college bars And late-night hangouts frequented by the youth of america.
No event is too big or too small.
Good.
Keep going.
Aye, aye, cap'n.
No respect, even now.
I do the talking.
No comment, no comment, no comment.
What's the fbi's involment in the investigation No comment.
In the murder of captain collins? We are strictly here Just to advise the providence police department.
Is the collins murder tied to the other two stabbings of last week? And when they are ready to make their statement, They'll let you know.
Thank you.
They've been out there all day.
Some of my friends wanted to come by, They didn't want to be on the 6:00 news.
Your husband's a hero.
Unfortunately, The circumstances of his death Has caused this to be a media circus.
Well, you'd think they'd show a little-- Hey! What did I tell you, sophia? Get away from the window.
Are we going to be on tv? Not if I can help it.
Go in your room and play.
I'll be there in a sec.
I spent years waiting for a phone call Or one of those letters they used to hand-deliver To dead soldiers' wives.
They want to know if I want to bury paul At--at arlington, But I don't have-- Ok.
I know you have a job to do.
Let's do this so it's done right.
That's what paul would say.
What do you need to know? It happened right here.
You told the police you weren't sure When the unsub walked in? Yes.
I don't know.
One ment he wasn't there, and then he was.
All right, let's walk through the mass.
You told the police that you were late.
They came in during the first reading.
You know most of your parishioners on sight? Yes.
But not the unsub, right? No.
I don't know how I could have missed him.
You know the collins family personally, right? Of course.
I mean, paul, he grew up at this school.
Whenever he came home, he made sure to come to mass.
And they sat there in the back So as not to disturb the mass? Yes.
Once they were settled, Could you see them? No.
Then let yourself off the hook, father.
If you couldn't see the collins family, You couldn't see the killer.
No.
But he was definitely there by communion? Yes.
Not before? I don't remember.
All right.
Meg, we can take a break If you need to take a break.
Hey.
What is it, sweetie? I shook his hand.
When was that? When we all say, "peace be with you" And we shake hands.
I shook his hand.
That's right.
She's right.
During the sign of the peace.
He touched my baby.
He-- Ank you.
Oh, god.
He t--he touched my baby.
Meg, I know this is difficult.
But I want you to try and focus.
Ok? Stay with me.
I need you to tell me what happened during communion.
We all got up.
Who got out first, paul? Yes.
But he let me and sophia Go first.
Paul always goes last.
We--we took communion And we--we went back and we, uh We That's ok.
We're almost done.
You're doing great.
Paul was on your right.
Sophia was on your left.
What happened? She was playing.
And after communion, you pray.
I leaned down and I told her that.
So you were facing to your left, away from paul, Away from the killer.
You never see him coming, you never see him go.
I need a break.
Of course.
I want to stay here.
Meg might recall More, and even if she doesn't, What she's going through What's wrong? This unsub isn't psychotic And he's not gonna go on a spree.
He's too patient.
Ok, but What is he trying to accomplish? I don't know.
Get the stuff out All right, I'm folding I don't hear you approaching.
You always talk to yourself? Good.
If these machines were on, I definitely wouldn't hear you come up behind me.
Jake moreland, providence p.
D.
Emily prentiss.
Great.
Can you do that again? Sure.
Ok.
You come in through the back door, Slash my throat, walk out.
There's no cameras inside or outside of the building.
The same is true for all the crime scenes.
Which means you're smart enough to plan for that in your attacks.
Mm-hmm.
But, careless enough to drop a knife 10 feet After I cut you.
But you didn't leave any fingerprints.
No.
He did that at all 3 crime scenes.
Mass murderers and spree killers, They often fetishize their weapons, But this guy discards his.
Why? He can get a new knife anytime he wants.
They carry these at army/navy stores.
It could be a scare tactic.
Hoso? Americans typically are more terrified By the presence of a knife than a gun.
They're more likely to scream out for help if they see a gun, Whereas they'll comply if they see a blade.
So, victimology and murder weapon Aren't important to this guy.
What does that leave? What is he attacking? The crime scene itself.
Did you see the sign outside when this place was established? The same as the restaurant.
Second generation italian.
Everyone in the neighborhood eats there.
St.
Alvina's was built at the beginning of the last century.
So each location has a history in this community.
So he wants to destroy landmarks, Pieces of providence's history.
That's why the random victims.
He's making a point.
Probably the manifestation Of a deep hatred for the city.
He wants to scar the places Everybody knows and goes to.
Not quite.
Take a ride with me.
We're gonna have a look at the other crime scenes.
Why? Indulge me.
Attack an institution, everybody responds.
Neighbors come out, the mayor assigns extra cops.
A place of worship turns into a crime scene, You feel personally assaulted.
That's what gets him off.
The response.
Public outcry.
He wants the big show.
You think he's revisiting the crime scenes? Not just revisiting.
Reliving.
He's found a way to keep the murders he's committed Fresh because they're always on the city's mind.
"witnesses say they didn't see it happen, Were alerted by the screams of the victim's wife and daughter.
" Man alive, in a church.
This guy, he ain't afraid onothin'.
Need anything? I'm gonna grab a smoke.
Careful, connie, those things'll kill ya.
Careful, it's hot.
Oh, good.
'cause I love my tea really warm.
Would you like some cream and sugar with your tea, too? Please.
That's how miss tuffet likes her tea, too.
Oh.
Thank you.
It's good.
But I think sophia's tea is a little bit better.
Thank you.
How many do you have? You're too good at this not to be a mom.
One.
A boy.
Sophia's first communion is supposed to be next week.
She'll do great.
Oh.
Excuse me.
Hey, rossi.
We're just getting ready to deliver the profile, But I need you to do something.
Mm-hmm.
I understand.
Ok, uh, call me when you find out more.
Bye.
Sophia, mommy and agent jareau need some privacy, ok? Thank you for the tea.
You're welcome.
I know that tone of voice.
It's always followed by bad news.
You should know a lot of these guys need to feel powerful.
Producing a spectacle gives them that sense of pride.
I'm trying to quell that by controlling the circus outside.
Is he watching us? Maybe.
We think he revisits his crime scenes.
It's possible the media could have brought him here.
He won't shake my daughter's hand this time if he does.
It's possible hotch: We suggest that youve think of this unsub here.
Not as a slasher but as an arsonist.
Because the gratification he's getting Isn't from the physical act of murder But from the public's reaction to it.
Arsonists draw attention to themselves Through the fires they set.
While this unsub will never set an actual fire, He has the same psychosis as one who does.
Our unsub fits that model.
His locations have been pillars of the community.
The victims he picks aren't as important as the effect Of killing them outside of your favorite restaurant Or place of worship.
By picking locales wit the highest visibility, He's creating the highest level of fear in that neighborhood, Which reinforces his feeling of power.
Yeah, but arsonists don't set out to hurt people.
This guy clearly does.
That's true.
And this unsub Definitely falls in the category of sociopath.
His victims are there only to achieve his goal.
He doesn't have the ability to empathize with them.
To him, they're just tools for him to use, No different than a can of gasoline and a match.
I'll talk to you later, sweetie.
I'm just at the market right now.
All right.
I love you, too.
But even how he kills tells us something.
Slashing a throat is a messy, visual act.
It's designed to create attention, Just like a fire.
Arsonists are often ssion based.
They need make sure their first fire has burnt out Before they set another one.
Are these organic? Yeah.
You know, I think I have a fresher bunch of those Back in the truck.
Holdn one second.
They're also highly disciplined and focused.
If conditions aren't right to set a fire, Or in this case, slash a throat, they'll move on.
You know, I'm sorry, I don't.
Which actually makes this your lucky day.
If you want to get something else, These hydrangeas are perfect.
They have to go home with somebody.
I'll give them to you for half.
They're beautiful.
O home absolutely, I'll take them.
Blue for your eyes.
How about that? In addition to his need to kill, He has self-control.
He has a short cooling off period Because he's enjoying what he's doing.
This in turn feeds his ego And keeps him covering his tracks.
This makes him even more dangerous.
If he gets frustrated, encounters too many obstacles, Or suffers a blow to his narcissistic ego, he could go on an all-out rampage.
Focus on men between jobs.
Instead of working consistently, He is hunting at his next location.
and he's revisiting his old scenes.
We recommend you-- Yeah.
The news crews are leaving the collins house.
He's killed again.
Yeah.
Farmers market at third and shelby.
The press are already on their way.
We could use that.
It'll feed his ego.
He'll want to stay and watch.
Ladies and gentlemen, when you get to the crime scene, We need you to canvass the crowd.
Pay particular attention to onlookers who might be More interested in the scene itself than the victim.
And get photographs of everyone.
Excuse me.
Jj, I need you there.
No, hotch, I-- I can't leave.
Jj, you're there to control the media.
They've left to cover the crime scene, Which may distract the unsub.
We can catch him, but I need you on top of the press Making sure they're focud on our goals and not the unsub's.
Jj.
Yeah.
I'm on my way.
I'm so sor.
It's ok.
I know that tone of voice, too.
Somebody died? H, my god.
Wt happened? I bet it was that stabber.
Stabber? What stabber? You know, the y who's been cutting People's throats open around town.
Right.
Him.
Come with me, sir.
What? What? Come on.
Wait, what? Come on.
Let's go.
Providence pole.
Go ahead, emily.
Hey, rossi, I got a trail of blood here, But I haven't found the knife yet.
He ran away.
See where it ends.
Got it.
We can't run this locally.
Run? It's ran, it's gone.
Cnn's leading with this in 3 hours.
Minimize his impact.
Do not give him a name.
It'll just encourage him to kill more.
Am I making this deal for full access? Of course.
Just attribute the good work to the providence p.
D.
And leave us out of it.
He was just a nice guy who worked here.
I'd en him here before but never bought anything from him.
What do you remember about the attack? I asked if his flowers were organic.
I turned away, and the next thing I know I felt something warm.
It was blood.
Did you get a look at the guy with the knife? The first person I saw was a guy screaming for help And he was trying to stop the bleeding.
A bunch of people ran over there trying to help, And I think I just stood there screaming.
Back up for a second.
Who was shouting? I don't know, some guy.
When I turned around, he was holding the poor man up, Trying to get someone to notice.
This guy must have got a lot of blood on him, yeah? Yeah, sure, I guess.
All right, thank you for your time.
Officer.
go ahead, emily.
I found out where that blood trail ended.
And? The unsub changed his clothes.
He left his bloo d-soaked ones here in the trash.
He's avoided getting blood on himself up to now.
What changed? I don't know, but whatever his reason, He came prepared.
He knew he would be bloody this time.
I'll get back to you.
What do you got, morgan? A witness says the first responder, a citizen, Cried out for help maybe 2 seconds after the stabbing.
He was the unsub.
I think so.
He's not content with revisiting the crime scene anymore, He needs to be part of them.
Detective! Yeah.
Establish a perimeter around the market.
Put your men no more an 20 feet apart.
Every cop needs to be in sight of one another.
Whoa, wait a minute.
What? Are you sure? The unsub is still here.
Start by separating the men from the women.
We found discarded clothes.
That's how we find him.
We match by body type.
All right, I'm on it.
Gardella, come on.
Copy that.
Connor, is that you? Hey, liddy.
What are you going? I gotta get back to the diner.
Well, you're gonna be late.
We gotta detain everyone inside here.
Oh, come on.
How many hamburgers have let slide? Just following orders, buddy.
Let's go.
You gotta explain to sal when I'm late.
Yeah, yeah, your customers won't starve.
Those gotta be on the board, too? What's the next great bit of advice from the fbi, huh? Take it easy, gardella.
This ain't the time or the place.
If we hadn't listened to them, liddy and I would be havg our morning cup of coffee.
We profiled that he was mission oriented, And this kill doesn't fit that pattern.
The murder of officer liddy is a significant departure Even for someone as unpredictable as this unsub.
This was a murder of self-preservation, just to get away.
This location is not his m.
O.
, Secludedwith no audience, stabbing, not cutting.
So? So he's out prowling the streets right now Looking for another victim so the city will pay atteion to him.
You've been handed a list of locations That we think might be of particular interest to the unsub.
We're asking you to double and even triple your surveillance in these areas.
Keep your wits about you, guys.
Detective, we'd like to speak to you.
Sure.
That's it, fellas.
Thank you.
Detective, the story has become about officer liddy.
We need to get the attention back on the unsub Or we're afraid that he may lash out.
Up till now, the unsub has been disciplined enough To avoid killing if the circumstances weren't right.
Like an arsonist who won't set a fire if there's someone there To see him leaving while smoke is billowing out the windows.
What if we say that one of the buildings didn't burn? How would the unsub react to that? He'd be compelled to come back and finish the job.
Then we pick one of the previous locations, Show that the community has rallied around it, So we need to find a location With the greatest symbolism up to this point.
That's easy.
And we use the city's fallen hero As inspiration.
Should we get the chief of police or the mayor To make a statement? It could help with inspiring people.
We've got something better.
Captain collins' widow.
I--I cannot ask her to do that.
She's highly visible, and she's someone With whom the entire city can sympathize.
When she tells the city not to be afraid to come back to church, The unsub can't ignore that.
And what happens if this draws the unsub to meg? We keep her with us.
We'll take the bastard down.
You want me to read this, In front of cameras? Yes.
Will my husband's killer be there? Most likely he'll watch it on tv.
You'll have police protection around you at all times.
No.
I won't do it.
Meg, please.
We need you.
You represent paul's memory.
I represent sophia.
Paul's given enough.
So have I.
Yes, sir.
No, I understand.
Thank you.
That was the mayor.
He won't sign off on a press conference At st.
Alvina.
And jj couldn't make any headway with meg collins.
How long has it been since officer liddy was stabbed? Well, if the unsub was going to go out on a spree, He would have done it by now.
Why hasn't he? He killed a cop.
He's laying low.
May be.
But we've profiled this guy like an arsonist.
It's the aftermath that matters, not the act.
You think he's feeding off the grief of the police department instead? If so, then he's found something new to get off on.
Detective.
Hold on a second.
Yeah? I need a list of establishments Where your officers socialize-- Bars, restaunts, pool halls, everything you've got.
Sure, right.
Eddie, let me get back to you.
Another round, guys? Yeah.
We're off the clock anays.
One more for liddy, boys.
Here's to a great cop.
We'll get this bastard for you,oe.
Yeah, the fbi gonna help you do that? We don't need a profile to know the kind of gu we're dealing with.
A coward.
He stabs a cop in the dark And runs away like a vermin.
Gutless.
No kiddin'.
Comrades, I have amassed employment records for police hangouts.
What do you want me toook for? White males 25 to 30.
I'm gonna need more than that.
Arsonists typically have a stronger relationship With their mothers than their fathers, So let's look for single-mother households With a history of abuse, bad divorce, or paternal violence.
Manifestations in the son, too, garcia, Like juvenile arrests, heavy crimes, A significant drop in grades.
Thank you, boys.
That will do.
Oh, this looks like something.
What do you have? Connor o'brien.
His dad went to prison for-- Oh, lordy--not only setting mom's apartment on fire But making it look like it was an accident So he could collect on the insurance.
Rned his kid's mother for a few bucks? Yeah.
And then connor testified.
He was 10.
Where's o'brien now? He works at the quality cafe.
Guys, it's across the street.
Thanks, garcia.
Where's connor o'brien? Fbi.
Connie? He just stepped out about 10 minutes ago.
Did you see which way he went? He just went out to grab a smoke.
Why Garcia, I need o'brien's home address.
What are you guys doing here? We were done with our shifts.
We poured one out for liddy.
Did you talk to him about the recent mders? Of course.
We said we'd catch the coward.
You disparaged him.
It's the other side of town.
Dave, you and morgan meet prentiss and s.
W.
A.
T.
On site.
Connor o'brien! Clear! He's not coming back here.
He's gonna make his last stand.
He's still gonna need to know he's foremost on everyone's mind.
Guys! It looks like he's got every article that was printed About his mom's death.
He has the prayer card from her funeral.
Birthday cards.
Look, all of them signed by his mom, not by his father.
Look at this.
That's a lot of hate.
His old man is already in prison.
He can't attack him.
So he goes after the places that remind him of his father.
The only way he can get through to his dad is with violence.
William o'brien, aka billy os.
Was a connected guy who specialized in turning faulty wiring Into a 3-alarm fire.
Because of connor's testimony, He was given a life sentence For the murder of his wife, But it was recently reduced To theossibility of parole in 5 years.
When was the sentence reduced? One month ago.
Just before the murders started.
There's our stressor.
Why would he do this to get back at his father if he's already in jail? Somebody's gotta pay.
He's a tough guy now.
Hey, wake up.
Wake up! Your mother's dead.
Time to go.
But, dad, you said I could-- I said let's go! It's ok, honey.
Just give me one more minute, we'll be out of here.
Yeah, thanks, eddie.
Damn it.
Where? Library about a mile from here.
Mother was found next to her crying baby.
Is the baby ok? Not a scratch, but they haven't found the knife yet.
It's his memento now.
He won't stop until he's killed As may people as possible.
We have to go to our original plan-- Create an event he can't resist coming to.
He has to believe he was unsuccessful.
If he won't go bk to his apartment, and I don't think He's gonna revisit the crime scenes.
The mother from the library? She's already gone.
She bled out at the scene.
The emts stopped working on her.
Tell them to keep trying to resuscitate her.
But she's dead.
Yeah, but the unsub doesn't know that.
Tell the press she made it, she's hanging on for dear life.
And we organize a candlelight vigil for her tonight.
If he's mission oriented and he thinks she's still alive, He'll have to come back for her.
And we'll be there.
Let the husband know what's going on So he's aware.
Have the press there.
Tell them to go live And to keep the focus on us as much as they can.
Mrs.
Collins.
The woman who was just attacked She was a mother? Yes.
What can I do to help? We are live at the latest crime scene, Where the fbi is facilitating what appears to be Officer! Move this crowd to that corner And pin them behind the police barricades.
We've got a female about 30, Her throat's been slashed, she's hanging on.
There's a vascular surgeon standing by at the hospital.
Yeah, one, two is your change.
Thank you.
Can I help you? A pack of smokes.
Uh, c-could you turn that up? Crime scene, where the fbi is facilitating What appears to be a rescue attempt of the most recent victim.
They are rushing her into an ambulance now.
Make some room, please! Right this way, guys.
How's she doing? We've got her stabilized, sir.
They're coming through.
Please clear it out.
Can we clear a path, please.
Officers, I want a To the hospital.
As you can see, she is still alive And being rushed to the hospital now.
Looks like she's ok.
No, no, that's im-- that's not possible.
As many of you know, My husband captain paul collins Was murdered this past Sunday.
The support I have received has been inspiring.
Which is why I'm asking everyone To support the latest victim, julia vecchia, Who is fighting for her life right now at st.
Frazier's hospital.
It's that wife of the soldier who got killed.
On behalf of my husband, We are asking you to come together At st.
Frazier's to hold a candlelight vigil tonight.
Please help restore this great city Look at her.
Kid's got a lot of heart.
Thank you.
You think this'll work? It should.
We've shifted the public's focus From connor to his victim.
That should make him angry enough to show up And try to do something about it.
Connor o'brien? Roll in now.
Go, go.
Puyour hands where I can see them and get down on the ground! Hey! Fbi! Stop right there! Stop! Moving! Stop fightg! Stop fighting! Stop! That's enough! It's over! That's enough! She's dead! There no possible way she could have survived! Connor o'brien, you're under arrest.
We know why you came down here.
Do you? I had to make sure.
She--she's dead, right? What are you smiling at? You're going to jail.
In jail they treat cop killers like kings.
First you gotta see how we treat 'em at the station.
Get him out of here.
Uhh! It's hard to believe that guy was so starved for attention That he murdered all those people just to one-up s father.
I spokwith detective moreland about connor's father billy os.
He said the older police knew to give him a wide berth.
He didn't say much, but when he did People listened.
The adult version of a bully.
There are lots of ways that sons defeat their fathers.
I just keep getting ph.
D.
S.
Does the son of a sociopath ever really have a chance? You know, o'brien committed his crimes in the same jurisdiction as his father.
It's only a matter of time before he's put in the same prison.
William shakespeare wrote, "when a father gives to his son, they both laugh.
"when a son gives to his father, Both cry.
" Hey, dad.
Well, well, well.
Does your mother know you're here? Uhh! Uhh! Aah! Uhh!