Woman: ooh, it hurts! [crying.]
Pleasehelp me.
Oh, my god! stop! Take me to a hospital.
[gasping.]
Aah! Help me! Stop! Oh, my god, stop! Ohh! ohh! Ohh! [breathing hard.]
[baby crying.]
Is everything ok? [baby crying.]
Oh, god.
[clipping.]
Oh, god.
Hey, you.
How are you doing? [door opens and closes.]
Give me the baby.
Wait.
[baby crying.]
It's a girl.
Don't! no! let me just-- Give me back my baby! [baby crying.]
What's next? Baton rouge thinks they have a white supremacist problem.
What's your take? Really? Yeah, i'd like to hear it.
We're dealing with an individual, not a group.
Why? The angry letters.
The writer switches pronouns from plural to singular.
"we are a heavily armed militia," followed by, "i will be forced to take action.
" Good.
send it back to the police with our analysis.
What else? You need to be somewhere? Umhenry's just going through a clingy stage.
It's one less 3 a.
m.
diaper change when i put him down.
Why don't you go home? Oh, no, no, no.
we only have 5 more cases.
we can crank 'em out.
We can do this tomorrow.
please go home.
Ok.
thank you.
I just have one last distribution and i'm out of here.
Good night.
Good night.
Chief strauss.
Aaron.
we need to talk.
Close the door.
[strauss and hotch speaking indistinctly.]
I need to review this with the director.
[door closes.]
Agent jareau.
Ma'am.
Hotch.
Yes? Is everything ok? Yes, everything's fine.
Good night.
Good night.
[beeping.]
[beep.]
[elevator bell dings.]
[beeping.]
[beeping.]
[beeping.]
Reid, what did i miss? Oh, man, you're not gonna believe this.
Some moron just posted a blog called "what would carl sagan do?" No, reid, the case.
what's the case? What are you talking about? These emails from hotch.
"take a look at this," "new case to review.
" Emails from hotch? I didn't get any emails from hotch, did i? Nothing.
Come in.
Did you, uh, get a chance to look at the files? I just got them.
what's so important You couldn't send it to the rest of the team? I just needed a second pair of eyes.
I'll review it right now.
just give me an hour.
That's not necessary.
We're ready.
Kristie taylor, runaway, drug addict, Reported missing from farmington, new mexico Yesterday, she turned up off a freeway Outside of rio rancho.
Sexual assault combined with ligature marks on her wrists and ankles.
She was asphyxiated.
All the women are connected by marks.
He likes chains.
Definite sexual sadist.
He sticks to his type.
all blond.
Hangs on to them for a while, too.
Look at this.
average of 2 years Between abducting them and killing them.
Low body count, long time frame.
This guy's in control of his urges.
Too controlled.
Sadists need new victims, new ways to torture.
There are a lot of guys out there who like chains.
Are we sure this is the same unsub? Kristie taylor's autopsy report Also indicates a second connection between these victims.
She was pregnant.
She'd given birth.
very soon after, the unsub killed her.
How soon after? Minutes.
This unsub isn't your typical sexual sadist.
Captivity and assault we've seen before.
What we haven't seen is this signature-- The role he forces these women to fulfill before he kills them.
Motherhood.
[screams.]
Jj: journalist william d.
tammeus wrote, "you don't really understand human nature "unless you know why a child on a merry-go-round "will wave at his parents every time around And why his parents will always wave back.
" So why would a sexual sadist make women carry his children? Gary heidnik kept a harem in a dungeon.
His goal was to create a large family As a replacement for his own broken home.
Josef fritzl kept his daughter in a cell in his own house, And they had several kids together.
Squalid conditions are part Of a control fantasy these men had.
If he's keeping these women in a similar location, He'd need a lot of privacy.
Morgan: he probably built it himself.
Makes him good with his hands.
Why blondes, and what significance do they have to him? Maybe, uh, the woman who rejected him Or the woman who wouldn't bear his children? If that were true, he'd be the same age as these girls-- Late teens.
This unsub is too skilled for that.
His own mother, then? She could be a runaway, just like these victims.
Which makes his compulsion psych 101-- Killing his mother over and over again for giving birth to him.
Yeah, but then why wait until after she gives birth? Now he has a body and a baby to get rid of.
That troubles me, too.
we found the mothers but not the infants.
Uh, i hate to say this, But what if the women are just a means to an end? What if the babies are really the ones he's exploiting? If kristie taylor just surfaced, It means he has her baby right now.
Jj, check with the parents.
see if there are any similarities In the runaways' patterns, where the unsub's finding them.
Reid and prentiss, go to the latest dump site.
We need to look at victimology.
How he treats these women in the final moments of their lives Might tell us what he's doing to the children.
Doctor, you wrote in your report That kristie had had several miscarriages.
How was that evident? There were a number of abrasions in her uterine lining.
Around the third trimester, her water would break.
So she never carried to term? No, last time she did.
There was a high level of pitocin in her blood.
It's an artificial hormone.
you give it to induce labor.
She was on a tight schedule? If she lost the baby, he would get her pregnant again immediately.
Childbirth is tough enough.
Imagine if your life depends upon it.
All 3 moms had records.
Drug abuse, drunk and disorderlies.
But what's more interesting is what he does after he kidnaps them.
This is kristie taylor she was abducted.
Hotch: he got her healthy.
Well-fed and off the habit.
Not completely.
These drugs in kristie's system-- what are they? Tamoxifen, metoclopramide, Domperidone, progesterone.
Progesterone's a prenatal medication, isn't it? They all are.
the first 2 help carry the baby to term.
The last 2 help with lactation.
What kind of sexual sadist Gives his victims prenatal drugs? The kind who takes care of the kids he's having.
He gets his rocks off killing the moms, But the babies he protects.
You think he's keeping them? If he despises the moms, He'd despise their children, too.
New mexico's right on the border.
A lot of human trafficking going on.
This tight schedule he keeps the moms on-- He could be breeding.
Call child protection services.
We need to find out about existing black markets for infants.
Thank you.
There's no tire tracks.
The body wasn't dumped that far from the road.
This guy doesn't care about them, Not enough to even hide them very well.
That's why this doesn't make any sense.
Dump sites reveal something about the unsub, you know? At the very least, a geographic familiarity, A place he knows he won't get caught.
Ok, so he knows this road.
Yeah, except he abducted kristie in farmington And then dumps her here in rio rancho.
It's a 175-mile drive.
Why drive that far just to dump a body by the side of the road? A forensic countermeasure? covering his tracks by sheer distance? So the geographical profile won't do us much good.
No, it will, Just not with the victims.
We profiled that it's the babies that he's interested in.
That's where he'll reveal himself.
The adoption company he sells through And whatever network of resources he uses.
He makes shortcuts there for convenience.
No one's gonna drive Or for a public notary for legal paperwork.
If the babies are in the system, they'll lead us to him.
Child trafficking Is huge in other countries, But here it's mostly a myth.
Why is that? There's an easier and legal path-- Adoption.
There'd be a paper trail, though, wouldn't there? There are ways to hide your tracks.
There must be a way to identify all these kids.
There's a court record for every adoption.
Give us the records.
We'll start weeding them out by date.
The adoptions in this state are closed.
The files are sealed.
so it'll take time.
That's a luxury we don't have.
There's a child at risk right now.
All children who go in and out of the adoption system Get basic genetic screenings for pre-existing conditions.
We have their dna.
We can use that.
we can match the maternal dna With the babies in the system.
We're still talking hundreds of kids.
What if we give you one of the babies' dna? That would make it go faster, yeah.
He kills these moms so soon after they give birth, Secondary dna could still be on their bodies.
I'll call the m.
e.
I understand.
thank you, doctor.
Agent jareau? I'm conrad winmar.
This is my wife jane.
Thank you for coming in.
Why don't we talk privately? You--you want to dig up our dauter? We think the unsub might have left dna on her.
The last 2 victims didn't have any, But because monica was the first, He might have made a mistake.
Back when they found her, The detectives said that they did not find his dna.
It's not his dna we're looking for.
We suspect your daughter gave birth while she was captive.
What? The unsub has gotten all of his victims pregnant.
He might be putting the babies In the adoption system.
The baby's alive? Possibly.
If we could find placental tissue on monica, We can test the dna Against the state's records.
Give us the release.
The first time i saw her, Saw her record, too.
Thought she was just another girl on the street, Not caring what she did to herself.
I never even thought to look for this.
What is it? It's a baby's umbilical cord.
The child should be about 4 now.
I hope you find him or her.
I really do.
Thank you.
mm.
Garcia: ok, know this-- Most adoption folk are like the nicest, Most dedicated people in the world.
There are, however, one or two skeezy ones.
How skeezy? Super skeezy.
i've got a spread sheet from one of them Expecting compensation for the baby i'm having.
Something you want to tell me, garcia? Oh, that's the sad part, my prince.
The genetically perfect offspring Of penelope garcia and derek morgan Wouldn't fetch top dollar.
Who does? White babies are in higher demand Than minorities.
Boys are more popular than girls, At least this year, anyway.
And then there's the swedish supermodel rule.
The what? If i were to deliver a blond-haired, blue-eyed bundle of joy, I'd be set for life.
i would.
Garcia, did the baby's dna Turn up in new mexico's adoption records? No.
there's no hits on her profile.
And it is a her, by the way.
This unsub could still be selling babies, Just not through the system.
That's gonna make him a lot harder to catch.
Hotch: all right.
it's late.
Let's get some rest.
we'll hit this fresh in the morning.
Garcia out.
Morgan.
I'd like for you to write up a preliminary profile.
We don't have enough for that.
Well, that's why it's preliminary.
A work in progress profile helps show us what we're missing.
Ok.
Sure.
How you holding up? We just wasted a day looking into a black market That probably doesn't exist.
That's not what i mean.
I've heard whispers.
You're getting some heat.
I'm taking care of it.
So, you, uh, think we have a tunnel vision problem? I think we'd like to believe That we could save those kids, But look what he does to the mothers.
A lot of anger.
He's probably doing the same thing to the children.
His own children.
Maybe.
Garcia said something interesting.
Blond-haired, blue-eyed babies get top dollar In the adoption system.
All the mothers Have blond hair and blue eyes.
You're gonna love this.
This guy, he has like the best.
Like there is no better.
He has like this access to god.
He doesn't want to hang on to it.
He wants to give it away.
How much further? Not much.
Because that's what god's love is, you know, it's sharing.
It's giving everything you have of yourself away And not expecting anything in return.
Where are we? Right here, baby, Right where we need to be.
Aah! Aah! aah! [groans.]
She's good, right? That's the kind of chick you want? [woman gasping.]
She's perfect.
I know it's a long shot, but monica's parents Said that she was heading west.
Maybe she made it part of the way when she was kidnapped.
So why not run her dna against adoption records in surrounding states? Are you kidding? i think you're brilliant.
Hey, jj, if we find this little girl, What's gonna happen to her? If something illegal transpires During the adoption process, the court nullifies it, The child gets returned to the closest blood relative.
Huh.
If it helps, I have met with the grandparents.
They're wonderful people.
Oh, i'm sure they are.
It's just I don't know, i I lost my parents.
Granted, i was older than she is, but What got me through were the people closest to me, and If monica's daughter is with a good family And we take her away from them Are we doing more harm than good? Yeah.
Garcia, i don't think we have a choice.
These people have a right to their granddaughter.
You're right.
Yeah.
This sucks.
Yes, right away, please.
Thank you.
Hey.
i just called cps, asked them to send over infant mortality files.
Another group for us to eliminate.
Good.
what's that? Your profile.
i disagree with your analysis.
Hotch, are you serious? it's not a law review article, It's just something for us to brainstorm.
But you only focused on one angle, morgan, That the prenatal drugs indicate the presence Of a wife or a girlfriend.
we need more options.
Which i can give you once we make the proper deductions.
Hotch, you're asking me to guess.
Morgan, in order for the profile to be useful, It has to generate multiple scenarios About what the unsub is doing.
Rewrite it.
We got her.
Monica winmar's daughter.
She was adopted 4 years ago.
She's lisa now.
How did garcia find her? She cross-referenced the entire new mexico system.
She wasn't in new mexico.
she was in arizona.
So all the mothers were abducted and dumped in new mexico, But he keeps the babies in arizona.
Rossi: he knows the police with stop looking at the state line.
The adoption agency's gonna be our best lead to the unsub.
Who handled the case? Jj: that's bombshell number 2.
She didn't go through an agency.
She was dropped off anonymously at a church.
Hospitals and churches are safe havens.
You can drop a baby off, no questions asked.
Child protection services would look for the closest relative.
Another search that ends at the state line.
And if cps doesn't find one, the baby will go into foster care, Which is what happened to lisa.
She was lucky.
the adoption process Happened within a month.
So, this unsub had the opportunity To make money off this infant.
He doesn't, drops it off at a church Because he knows the state will take good care of it.
That's awfully considerate.
Outside the murders, nothing about this unsub's Behavior profiles like a sexual sadist As i wrote.
Yeah, morgan's right.
It's the actions of a caretaker, a mother.
Could our unsub be a woman? Uh, only a man would torture his victims this much.
Men get off on this kind of violence.
women don't.
Morgan: he could be married, though, his wife being A passive participant, taking care of the moms.
And the babies.
All right.
we need to split up.
We'll give the profile to the arizona And the new mexico state police.
Rossi, reid, and prentiss, i want you to head to phoenix.
Morgan, you're here with me.
we'll finalize the profile.
[groans.]
Ohh.
How are you feeling? Terrible.
What are you on? What? What are you talking about? When he takes us, we're all on something.
I was an alcoholic.
So, what are you on? Uhcrack.
I'm carol.
I'm julie.
Here.
here's some water.
come drink some.
Umis this some kind of tough love detox? [clanking.]
Oh, what is that? It's like the sun.
It gives us vitamin d.
It keeps us healthy.
Well, they can't make us stay here.
Hey! hey, let me out! I want to go home! I want my clothes! i want my phone! Let me out of here! let me out! Why is he doing this? What does he want? Your baby.
I'm not pregnant.
You will be.
[door opens.]
Morgan: the unsubs that we are looking for are a couple.
Now, the man in the relationship Most likely has a history of sexual violence.
He started with stalking, and then moved his way up to assault and rape.
And that violent streak ended temporarily When he found his wife.
For the first years of their marriage, She submitted to his torture.
Look for wives who came into the e.
r.
repeatedly And with obvious signs of spousal abuse, But you are gonna have to go back about 5 years.
That's because around the time of the first abduction, The visits stopped.
The sexual sadist can't find satisfaction From a willing participant.
He eventually got to a place where he couldn't escalate His violence against her without killing her, So she made him a deal.
He gets to kidnap, rape, and kill Each of the runaways, And she gets to keep the children.
She's been giving the victims a series of prescription prenatal drugs.
So you're gonna want to look at the obstetric fields, uh, Nurses, o.
b.
s.
The wife needs these children.
At first, they were the lifeline that kept her alive.
As long as he had other targets for his abuse, She avoided his rage.
So if these children protect her from abuse, Why is she putting them up for adoption? We believe the unsubs want children who resemble them physically, Who no one would question as their own.
All of the runaways have been blond, Which means the unsub may be as well.
But the first child we found in the system was a brunette.
Whatever the physical characteristic-- The color of the eyes, the skin type-- If the baby doesn't have it, He or she ends up in the foster care system, Wives of sexual sadists need outlets As a denial mechanism to cope with what their partners are doing.
And motherhood, especially taking care of a helpless infant, Is this woman's way of coping.
Jane: you found her? We have.
How is she? She's great.
She was adopted by a young couple.
No reports of physical or emotional trauma.
So when can we take her? Right now we're in touch with her adoptive parents' lawyer, But the law is on your side.
Can we talk to the parents? We could discuss this with them.
They don't want to initiate contact.
They've been through a lot right now.
They're her parents.
Of course they don't want to give her up.
Well, if she wants to see them, then we can work that out, But we are her family.
Yes, absolutely.
No, wait.
What are the risks here? If we claim her, are we hurting her? It's impossible to tell.
Some kids do great.
Others have trouble.
But why are we talking about risks? She's monica's daughter.
Conrad She's not their blood.
Stop it.
Thank you, agent jareau.
But my husband and i, we need to discuss this.
What's this? It's the pattern i've been looking for.
The unsubs hid their tracks with the mothers, But they weren't so careful with the abandoned babies.
Did you find more children? Dna-wise, no, but deductively, yes.
I gathered all the records for all infants who entered into foster care In a 2-week window following each mother's death.
Then i narrowed it down to babies that were abandoned at churches.
This is where the guesswork begins.
Monica's winmar's daughter was abandoned at a presbyterian church.
Let's assume the unsub, or the wife at least, is presbyterian.
That means all other unwanted children Are gonna be left at the same denomination, right? That narrows it down to 3 babies Left at 3 different presbyterian churches All within this 20-mile radius.
This is where they live.
These kids you deduced to-- Have you looked at their files? No.
right now i've only been tracking churches.
why? Because you just uncovered another pattern.
Yeah, we're packing up now.
We can be in phoenix in about 2 hours.
You sure about this? The names of the babies reid found tells us everything.
Lisa, elizabeth, amanda.
We profiled there'd be a type they'd keep And a type they'd put into foster care.
They're keeping the boys.
[heartbeat.]
It's time.
Julie: what are you doing? What are you doing?! Hey, where are you going? come back! You have to come back! please! They never stay for this part.
No, no, no, no.
you're not actually-- Yesi am.
They've induced.
What am i supposed to do? You help me.
Ohh! No, no, no, i'm sorry, i can't.
i can't help you.
I can't.
i'm sick.
I'm not well.
i need a I can't do it.
julie, listen to me.
Are you listening to me? Yes.
yes.
If this baby doesn't make it They are going to kill me.
And once they've killed me, They are going to move on to you.
Do you understand? Ok.
Ok.
what do we do? Jj, i need you to call these fertility specialists And get them over here for interviews.
Whoa.
yeah, i know.
Hotch wants to focus on the prenatal drugs The unsubs are giving the victims.
He thinks we can build a new suspect pool, And he wants it done yesterday.
There's 2 pages of names here.
shouldn't we narrow it down? Jj, just do it, ok? I'm sorry.
Is everything ok? Hotch has been on me ever since we got here, And for the life of me, i can't figure out why.
Oh, i might know.
The night before hotch picked this case, Chief strauss stopped by the b.
a.
u.
They were behind closed doors, And it seemed like it got a little tense.
Well, the bureau's been on him for a while.
He must have known this was gonna happen.
Except now they're making him justify every decision.
For hotch, that'shell.
Rossi: dr.
dekeyser, we don't think She's getting these prenatal drugs as a patient.
You're thinking she's writing the scrip for these herself.
Something like that.
Then she wouldn't be very knowledgeable About what she's doing.
Some of these drugs have serious side effects.
There's dozens of meds i would prescribe before these, All of them more effective.
So why would she use these? My guess--these are the ones she had access to.
Fertility drugs are a cocktail, And you keep remixing the cocktail until you get pregnant.
The information is out there on the internet.
She found the right one.
So the woman was prescribed these drugs Maybe for some other illness And figured out that they helped carry a baby to term.
Exactly.
Then the real question is, What other diseases do these drugs treat? Ok.
i can do this.
I can do this.
[fetal heartbeat on monitor.]
What? Nothing.
you remind me of me.
Carol? hey.
Carol, please, please stay awake.
Please? Ok, just--just focus On the sound of my voice, ok? Can you do that? I'm here.
Carol, tell me about the woman Who was here before me.
What happened to her? She miscarried A lot.
Then she gave birth to a girl.
They don't like girls.
This isn't your first time, is it? No.
What happened? He didn't make it.
I'm sorry.
They let you live even if you lose him.
They want those boys.
Ok.
ok, hey.
hey.
Listen, i don't know what to do, ok, So please, please, just tell me what to do.
How dilated am i? Wh-what? i don't know what that means.
Just put your fingers in a row and Measure me.
Wait Oh, my god.
[groaning.]
Ok Oh, my god.
Ok.
um It's 4.
it's 4 fingers.
And i--oh, god, is that the head? Mm-hmm.
Oh, my god, what does that mean? It means It's time to push.
What is this? It's a tactical arrest plan.
I'd like you to write it up for this case.
You want me to write up how we apprehend these unsubs Without risking the lives of the children.
Yes.
[scoffs.]
hotch, i've led dozens of tactical assaults.
You've never made me write up one of these before.
That's because i always do it for you after each case.
[scoffs.]
You know what? I'm sorry strauss is coming down on you.
This is not about strauss.
Really? i disagree.
Look, i understand that you're under the gun.
But i gotta say it.
i'm really not all that surprised.
I've watched you walk away from a bunch of cops gunning down unsubs in d.
c.
You walked in unprotected to a hostage situation in louisville.
Of course the bureau's worried about you.
Man, i'm worried about you.
But just because you're the one who's under the magnifying glass, That doesn't mean i can't domyjob.
Morgan, there's a big part of your job that i do for you Because i don't need you worried about paperwork and politics.
I need you in the field and focused and catching the next unsub.
But i can't do that anymore.
I don't have to justify my orders to you, And you do have to follow them.
I've always followed your orders when they made sense.
Well, if you have a problem with this one, tell me now.
You're the boss.
Garcia needs to talk to us asap.
Ok, so the gold star of the day goes to agent david rossi And his short list of one disease These prenatal drugs also treat.
Breast cancer.
progesterone, tamoxifen slow the spread, Metoclopramide and domperidone-- Are for anti-nausea if i remember correctly.
If this woman has breast cancer, would she be able to get pregnant? She could.
she'd have to be dedicated.
How dedicated? Well, she'd have to go off chemotherapy.
She'd be in a lot of pain.
But she'll try anyway.
Her whole life is children.
that's her goal.
The first runaway, monica winmar, When was she abducted? Garcia: 5 years ago.
How many breast cancer patients in arizona Got pregnant Uh, let me see.
Not a lot.
7.
How many of those patients are married to a man With a history of sexual violence? Just one-- robert and linda reimann.
Oh, jeez.
what? She lost the baby in month 8.
She had to go through labor anyway.
Well, that kind of physical and emotional trauma, there's our stressor.
Garcia, was the baby a boy? Yeah.
they even named him--michael.
There has to be a name on the death certificate.
Doctors encourage bonding between mothers and stillborns.
Ivolunteer with a new mom counseling group.
They say it helps them cope with feelings of loss.
Well, this unsub can't cope, so she's recreating them.
Ok, come on, you're almost there.
just push.
Push! [grunting.]
[baby crying.]
oh, my god.
Is it a boy or a girl? Ha! it's a boy.
[baby crying.]
Oh [crying.]
You're here.
You made it.
[grunting.]
[door opens.]
No.
Don't.
No! no, please, leave her alone.
please! Please, please, please, just wait one minute.
Please, please! [baby crying.]
It's a boy.
[crying.]
Michael.
Ok, commander, this here Is the unsub's address.
Now, 5 years ago when the wife lost their child, The husband started paying For home renovations with his credit card.
Shower, toilet, tile, and mesh fencing Which he did not put up in his backyard.
He was building his dungeon.
No permits were filed for additional building on the property, So the entrance must be inside the house.
How many doors are there to cover? There's 2--one in the front, one in the back.
We have the arrest warrants? Faxed over Morgan, what's your plan? I think we should do a soft entry.
See if we can get the kids out Before the parents even know what's happening.
You'd be in the door first? Do you have another idea? Send prentiss and jj in first.
Children are more likely to trust a woman, and we need that presence.
We don't know how many kids are in the house.
I mean, the parents could take a hostage.
But if we go in hot, That would definitely happen.
Hotch is right.
This is the way.
Hi.
It's ok.
It's ok.
we're the police.
We're the good guys.
Can you come outside with me? Ok.
ok.
Hotch, we've got one boy accounted for.
He's on his way out to you, But there could still be more in the basement.
[toilet flushes.]
Fbi.
Where's your wife? In the nursery.
Rossi.
Hotch.
Go.
I knew this would end.
I always knew you'd come to our door And take this away.
Ma'am, why don't you give me the baby.
We can talk about it.
Why would i want to do that? What you've been doing is wrong.
You must know that.
Oh, god, please, please get us out of here! Oh! oh, thank god.
thank god.
[gasping.]
We're all clear here.
Ohh! It's ok.
it's ok, you're safe.
come with me.
But no, i can't leave her.
All secure, but we need medical.
This is all i have left.
Do you understand? My husband hates me.
There's nobody here that can help me with him, With this, with any of it.
He's all i have.
[sniffles.]
Linda.
Please.
I need you to think about the baby right now.
You're suffering from stage 4 breast cancer.
You've given your medication to the women That have been locked up downstairs.
You don't have a lot of time left.
I know you want somebody who will always remember you, don't you? The baby's name is michael, right? Yeah.
Michael will remember you.
He's gonna know that you helped bring him into the world.
That's a part of him now.
And he will always ask about you, Long after you're gone.
Do you really believe that? I do.
[sniffles.]
I would have been a wonderful mother.
Then prove it.
Let him go.
[sniffles.]
Where's my son? We're looking for him.
Please, don't let anything happen to him.
Look, he's here.
He's fine.
[crying.]
He's ok.
Ohh You are beautiful, aren't you? * it took 40 days and 40 nights * * to get myself feeling right * I spoke with lisa's adoptive parents.
They've agreed to talk to you.
They're not willing to give up custody, But they do want lisa to know her grandparents.
Yeah, we-- we can live with that.
The reason why i wanted you to come by Wasa year before giving birth to lisa, Monica had a son.
We've already matched his dna to your daughter.
The closest relative should take custody.
Would you like to meet him? [jane crying.]
* there are no words to describe * What's his name? Michael.
Michael.
* no, there are no words to describe * * such a beautiful thing * Have a seat.
The bureau thinks that my ability To lead this team has been compromised.
What do you think? Sometimes i question you, hotch.
But at the end of the day, i do respect you.
You're the leader of this team, And my job is to have your back.
Well, that's not important to the bureau.
They've been questioning me since foyet's attack.
And they're not entirely wrong.
I've tried to do my best, But what matters now is if strauss replaces me, This whole unit will come under scrutiny.
Members will be reassigned, budgets will be cut.
Come on, hotch, nobody's gonna replace you.
Fight strauss.
i'll go to the mat for you.
So will everybody else.
you know that.
Morgan, it won't work.
Decisions like this have their own momentum Unless i step down.
Step down? what are you talking about? I'm resigning as unit chief at the end of the week.
What? No! Hotch, look, yeah, ok, Sometimes your actions, i may disagree with them, But it's not enough for you to leave this team.
I'm not leaving the team, I'm just no longer in charge.
You are.
Me? [laughs.]
look, i had the chance to be unit chief in new york, And i said no.
I turned it down because i like this team.
Strauss can't just fire you like this.
She can reassign me.
And we can avoid that if i promote internally.
This is wrong.
It's the only way to keep the team together.
[sighs.]
so all of this-- This is why you've been pushing me so hard, huh? I haven't been pushing you that hard.
Wow.
Morgan, i need to know Right now-- Will you do this? This would be temporary.
Once we catch foyet, All this goes back to normal.
Let's get started.
What's all this? This is the job, Unless you have other plans.
Not tonight.