Drew.
drew, just-- Just stop.
I get it.
That's why allison is with you.
Oh, god.
I am dealing with it.
Ben! Well, you took her from me, remember? Ben, i thought you paid the bill.
What are you doing? Ben? [door creaking.]
[gasps.]
Aah! [sawing.]
Any closer and the image will distort.
How is jack? He's real smart.
had us in tears.
Great kid.
Haley? To be honest, we're moving them to a halfway house.
I thought you had found a permanent location.
Haley made a number of phone calls to her mother.
It's all good, but to be safe, We have to move them.
Sam, thank you.
I promise you, No harm will come to them.
You just concentrate on getting foyet.
Happy birthday, buddy.
[thunder.]
You got a second? Sure, what is it? A case just came in.
I'll be right there.
Actually, i need to talk to you.
It's on commack, long island.
That's your home town.
Yeah.
and if it's ok, I'd rather stay behind.
Why? It was a different life, One i left 30 years ago.
I'm in no hurry to go back.
Well Any other day, i'd say stay, But i just became aware of this.
What have we got? Ben vanderwaal was killed in commack, long island, Last night, shot at close range, Once in the heart, once in the head, .
22 caliber shell.
They found hair and blood traces From ben vanderwaal's wife heather.
But not heather? No, she's still missing, presumed dead.
The caliber and placement of the bullets Match that of two previous victims.
The first, rita haslat.
missing from her home in new jersey.
found in a trash bin.
She went from that to this in under 3 weeks? She's totally emaciated.
Ligature marks on her wrists and ankles Indicate she was constrained.
One in the heart, one in the head-- same as vanderwaal.
Sounds more like an execution.
Then why cut off vanderwaal's hands postmortem? What about the third victim? Bill levington.
His appearance was certainly altered.
His genitals were missing.
Though the method of mutilation is different in each crime, Clearly there's a signature.
the question is, what? Wheels-up in 20 minutes.
What's this? You told me you were cleared to travel.
you lied.
Naughty boy.
Uh, no, i didn't.
I am a doctor, so technically, i wasn't a lie.
What was it, then? Umsecond opinion.
Hmm.
you're my bitch now.
[laughs.]
Rossi: "justice without force is powerless.
Force without justice is tyrannical.
" Blaise pascal.
In the ben vanderwaal case, His hands were taken.
Uh, bill levington, his genitals.
Only in the rita haslat case she was starved and tortured, Then executed, And there's no sign of postmortem mutilation.
Why would he take heather vanderwaal And not simply kill her? Maybe he hasn't and she's still alive.
The only thing concrete is the m.
o.
, Which depicts an efficient no-nonsense murderer.
Well, then we need to figure out What each act of mutilation means to the unsub.
Or to the victim.
It's pretty much how we found it.
There's no signs of forced entry.
It says in the file that heather vanderwaal has a daughter.
Where is she? She moved to san diego to live with her real father.
Ben and heather vanderwaal Have only been married a couple of years.
So heather came in, she dropped her shopping bags, Her cell phone, and her keys, but not her coat.
She turns on the lights.
But they didn't work, Because the phone and the ectricity were cut.
Something in this room attracted her attention.
What is it? Marks in the blood look like a camera tripod.
Serial killers, especially sexual sadists, Often document their kill.
But sexual sadists usually torture their victims While they're still alive.
You still didn't find any conflicting dna? No.
no prints, no fibers, nothing.
Nobody heard any shots? [cell phone rings.]
no.
oh, excuse me.
Yeah? All right.
Heather vanderwaal was just found Wandering the streets half hour ago.
She's at brookside general.
Get jj over there.
A killer this sophisticated doesn't leave a living witness Without a reason.
Heather, my name is agent jareau.
I have some questions for you.
So you came home, You tried to turn the lights on, But they didn't work.
What did you do next? I saw a light.
A flash.
I opened the door, And ben was there, Tied to a chair.
I think he was dead.
There was another flash.
It blinded me for a moment.
Did you see your attacker? No.
Did he say anything? No.
I heard this noise.
What kind of noise? Sawing.
I watched him cut off ben's hand.
Why didn't he kill me? [cell phone rings.]
Excuse me.
[ring.]
Jj: garcia.
We've been getting to know heather vanderwaal.
I can't tell you her favorite beatle, but i can tell you she was living la vida unhappy.
What did you find? Reid: her ex-husband took her daughter allison Out of school mid-term.
after that, heather cut a check for $5,000 To a place called lewis, bell, & peters Law firm? Family law.
Thanks.
Mrs.
vanderwaal At mid-term you moved your daughter out of school? Yes, i did.
After that, you filed for divorce from ben.
This man left you alive for a reason.
I need to know if these two things are connected.
A few months ago, I found a picture of allison on ben's phone.
Your daughter.
She was naked.
Where was it taken? I couldn't tell.
Did you confront him? Yes.
he claimed that Allison sent it to him by mistake.
She meant to send it to another student at her school.
It's called sexting.
What did allison say? She said ben took it, But she--she lies.
Allison, she's a liar.
She caused us a lot of trouble, you know? She wasn't lying about this, though, was she? No.
[crying.]
The hand removal is less than surgical.
He used a basic double-toothed saw.
So, the guy we're looking for Has no medical training.
Not the kind i've had.
One in the heart, one in the brain, close range.
The second one was right up behind the ear.
How about gunshot residue? Surprisingly little.
Maybe it's because the killer was using a .
22.
Small caliber, small discharge.
Hmm.
What is it? Ballistics can't match the bullets to a gun.
There were no rifling marks on the bullet.
There's only one explanation for that.
Well, if anyone had a motive to kill ben vanderwaal, It was heather's ex-husband.
But he was in san diego, and he has no connection To the other two victims.
David rossi, we finally get to meet.
Detective gil hardesty.
very, very nice to have you with us.
Hotch: morgan, what did you find? In all cases, the .
22 caliber bullets had no rifling marks.
And without the barrel being rifled, The bullets would have very little velocity.
He would have to shoot his vi pointblank.
Jj.
this guy's using a zip gun.
Now, if you know what you're doing, a piece of plumbing Or a kid's bicycle pump can be turned into a gun.
Rossi: one in the heart, one in the head.
Untraceable, expandable bullets tell me without question, All of these kills were strictly business.
A hitman? What about the postmortem mutilation? A contract sometimes includes extras.
The camera is not for sexual gratification, it's for proof of death.
So we could be looking for two people? Maybe.
maybe more.
Excuse me.
I may be able to hit on some old contacts, But i'll need to do it alone.
Contacts? Do we want to know? Best not.
[tv, indistinct.]
[irish accent.]
we don't open till 5:30.
I'm looking for the owner of that coat.
Is that right? Not with that you're not.
Check out the front and back.
You're either a dead man or a cop.
which one is it? Right now i'm just an old friend.
You gave up that right the day you became a fed.
Ray? David.
I thought you retired.
Writing books? What can i tell you, ray? Some habits are hard to break.
I try this damn puzzle every morning.
Never gets any easier.
"crater creator.
" You know, i work with a kid Who can solve this whole thing in 5 minutes.
He must be smarter than both of us.
That's for sure.
So what's it been, You know, i thought at the very least I would see you at emma's funeral.
I, um need to ask you a favor.
She loved you as much as you loved her.
Hey, ambition's a bitch, ain't it? I'm not here to talk about emma.
What are you here to talk about? You've read the news? You think i got something to do with that? You should stick to writing books.
This guy is real specific.
He uses a zip gun and then throws in extras.
For a smart guy, your coming back here was a real dumb move.
Not as dumb as the one that sean made.
He's on trial for the transportation of weapons, No doubt for you.
And what about the rico beef hanging over your head? You help me, And you'll be assisting a federal investigation.
[chuckles.]
and what exactly is that gonna do for my reputation? If you don't, You may not have one to protect.
Our organized crime unit is very close To shutting you down permanently.
Keep talking.
The removal of the hands is as specific As rita haslat's condition was when she was found.
Just as specific as the removal of bill levington's genitals.
There's a message in the mutilations The unsub wants us to know.
I got something here that might help us with-- Technically, we have something here that might help with that.
Bill levington was involved in a serial rape case, All involving minors, and it never went to trial.
Rita haslat? A former social worker, a former-- Attained said former status When she was fired from the dcfs for gross negligence.
In one of her cases, a 7-year-old boy starved to death.
Prentiss: which explains why haslat was so emaciated when she was found.
If all the victims were indicated in crimes against children, Then we've found a connection.
One of the unsubs has access to the crimes of the victims And probably works in the justice system.
garcia? On it.
what? on it.
All right, well, we know what the victims have in common, We just need to find out who they have in common.
Wait.
this social worker and the suspected rape case, Those were matters of record.
Ben vanderwaal's relationship with his stepdaughter is not.
Unless the stepdaughter told someone else.
I'll call rossi.
I'll have the daughter brought in.
And all 3 crimes were against children? Ok.
thanks, prentiss.
Cuban, no doubt.
Mm.
Contraband? Some laws are just plain unjust.
You know, those 3 individuals messed with kids.
They got what they deserve.
That all depends on your definition of justice.
It's the same as when we were kids.
You do what you gotta do to survive.
What about this guy? Yeah.
There's only one guy that's this specific.
Name? Bosola.
I spoke to heather last night.
I knew for a long time something was off, but this-- Why didn't you tell me? Mr.
sandweiss, allison is the victim here.
I just want to know the truth from her, for once.
I told you, i don't know what they're talking about.
Allison, we have the pictures your stepfather took of you.
Sandweiss: allison He was always home before mom.
We just talked at first.
Why didn't you tell your mom? I knew she'd tell dad, and he always said he'd kill anyone Who laid a hand on me.
And did he? How long has he been operating? He's a ghost.
I've heard that name.
Bosola.
He's a character in a play.
jacobean tragedy called the duchess of malfi.
Bosola brutally slays the duchess.
It wouldn't be a tragedy if he didn't.
Is he local? I don't care about the rico beef.
What about sean? Federal prison, out in 2.
All right.
I'll bring you bosola tonight.
You better bring the marine corps.
Allison, did you ever tell anyone About what your stepfather was doing? I told my therapist.
He said i act out because i crave attention.
I'm so sorry, daddy.
You have nothing to be sorry for.
We need his name, please.
Your therapist.
Sandweiss: jerry sorum.
Am i a suspect? Not yet, mr.
sorum.
What is your professional opinion of allison? You mean was she sexually abused by her stepfather? No question.
And you reported it.
Of course.
To the police? Absolutely.
Morgan: how far did they take it? They had it reviewed by the state.
Did the police interview her? They came to my office.
Allison wanted nothing to do with it.
Case closed.
Just like the 380,000 cases of child abuse Reported in this country each year.
Less than one percent gets to trial.
Does that make you want to even the odds? Every time i listen to a child Vividly recount the most horrific Acts of abuse Done at the hands of a father, An uncle, Someone they're supposed to trust It's all i can do not to break down.
But that's all i'm capable of.
After that, like you, I trust in the justice system.
[cell phone rings.]
Rossi.
Midnight.
my restaurant.
Most people never meet bosola.
Those that do only ever meet him once.
If he smells a fed, i'm gonna end up like the duchess.
Now, that would be a tragedy.
[laughs.]
All right.
I've never said anything out of turn, ever, have i? Go on.
Always you've treated me like a son.
But i'd rather do time that see you become a rat and help the feds.
I'm closing the restaurant tonight.
You and the boys take the night off.
I can't let you do this alone.
I'm not helping the feds.
I'm helping an old friend.
Good night.
go on.
Rossi: he dims the lights, we go in.
So, uh, jack's what, Yeah.
And i literally have no idea where he is.
He's safe.
I saw prentiss and morgan up the block, But the two agents in the sedan, They're not with us.
That the counter surveillance in case foyet is watching me.
For which, apparently, there's no more money.
Yeah, i heard.
Did somebody call you? They're concerned.
What did you say? what i'm telling you.
An attack against you is an attack against all of us.
[cell phone rings.]
Why are you calling? you ok? I hope you got some good guys out there.
This man is a mean son of a bitch.
We're all over.
he's not gonna know what hit him.
Hey, that kid-- The, uh, smart one-- I could use a little help.
Reid? Reid here.
Crossword question.
Crater creator.
Crater creator.
Arctangent.
Did you get that? Damn, she's smart.
Mm-hmm.
Did you see that-- Flash? I saw that.
He's already in there.
All units, go, go, go! Morgan's out canvassing the area.
This whole place is swarming with cops.
We had the streets, the building, even the damn roof covered.
How the hell did he get through us? Garcia traced finnegan's phone calls.
He made one at 4:38 to a pre-paid cell, Another one to you at 11:41.
We gave bosola 7 hours to prepare.
I think he was here before we arrived.
And he heard ray call me.
This is all my fault.
Now he knows we're onto him.
He's not the only one.
Whoever he works for does, too.
Each mutilation represents the crimes The unsubs believe these 3 individuals committed.
Unsubs? Unknown subjects.
2.
Both male.
unsub "a" we're calling the planner.
He works in the criminal justice system.
We're looking at both defense and prosecution attorneys, Judges, and even cops.
We believe that the planner has experienced A devastating personal tragedy of some sort.
And because of the sophisticated nature of the scenario, We believe unsub "a" is in his late 50s or 60s.
The planner likely met unsub "b", the enforcer, Within the court system.
He's been hired to carry out justice.
Now, this type of justice does not come cheap.
So the planner has access to substantial cash.
Absolutely no attempt was made To hide the mutilation.
This suggests the planner either doesn't care what we find Or he wants us to find it.
Now, the enforcer, on the other hand, Has no such intentions.
He should be considered armed and extremely dangerous.
Thank you.
All right.
let's go, people.
All final payments have been made.
I see no reason not to complete the tasks Or to converse further.
Good.
one last request-- I would like you to pay special attention To mr.
patton.
I've concentrated on the last 3 cases.
They've left the freshest e-prints.
Great.
Not really.
over 100,000 cases Pass through long island court.
Who had eyes on those files? Literally hundreds and hundreds of people.
Change track.
focus on the enforcer.
Mob-related murder trials on long island the last 10 years.
We're looking for a hitman.
Hey, there are 93 mob trials in the last 10 years.
Put aside any trials that resulted in a conviction.
Weed out mistrials and arraignments.
Uh, 19.
Were any of those on trial Suspected of being hitmen or enforcers? Reid: 3-- Whoa, whoa, whoa, this totally slipped the net.
Tony mecacci--his case was judged a mistrial, But check out his suspected victim.
.
22 caliber, right? Bull's-eye.
Cross-match our profile of the planner Against all those connected with this trial.
Let's see--prosecuting lawyer garrett daniels, Judge boyd schuller, Criminal defense lawyer paul-- Wait, wait.
Did you say judge schuller? Yeah, here's a photo.
What's wrong? Prentiss: do you know him? No.
but i knew his wife.
driving home from work And she was killed by a drunk driver.
That could be the tragedy.
She was the love of his life, that's for sure.
took a leave of absence Due to health issues.
He was diagnosed with terminal cancer.
He has 6 months to live.
And that's when the killing started.
You don't seriously think judge-- Judge schuller is the planner.
Fits the profile.
yes, i do.
And tony mecacci is most likely bosola the enforcer.
What have you got on bosola? Uh, he went off the grid after his last trial.
Jj, put out a statewide apb and release mecacci's photo to the media.
Judge schuller's a highly-respected man.
We can't just walk in there and accuse him of serial murder.
Then i'll go to the attorney general And petition the chief justice if i have to.
And maybe not.
I believe you're looking for me.
You know we have to advise you of your rights.
I waive my constitutional rights against self-incrimination.
When you walked in here, You said, "i believe you're looking for me.
" And i was right.
Your timing was impeccable.
But how could you know that? I knew it wouldn't take you long to find me.
Not after what i've left behind.
So you don't deny any of this? Why would i? what you see as a crime, i see as justice.
Ray finnegan was a friend of mine.
Ray finnegan was a criminal.
You should choose your friends more wisely.
It must have really thrown you When ray showed up at emma's funeral.
How do you know about my wife? You have absolutely no idea who i am, do you? Ray told rossi you only meet bosola once.
So judge schuller had to have given him a list of names.
He never needs to see him again, Just make final payment on proof of death.
Have garcia hack into schuller's files And track his financial records Before everything gets shut down.
And find out if his office made any calls.
They did.
i spoke to them a few hours ago.
I told them we had two suspects.
So he knows we're onto him.
He came here to stall.
He does have a list.
there's more to come.
Could we just get on with what i came here for? Why? so bosola can go on and carry on Whatever it is you asked of him to do? no.
You call him and you end this.
Even if i could, i wouldn't.
She was born emma louise taylor, You could get that from anywhere.
When she was 6, her dad john Brought him a black and white homeless kitten.
If she knew you Emma would have told me.
She named it oscar, After oscar wilde.
And of all oscar wilde's work, she loved an ideal husband the most.
I don't know how you know all of this about emma Or what you hope to achieve, But we're done.
You know the charges.
charge me.
Is that what started all this insanity-- Emma's death? What started all of this was the 35 years I had to sit and watch As the system i swore an oath to protect Failed the very people our justice system was meant to protect.
I wonder what emma would make of all this.
Every single person on that list deserves justice, And it's justice they managed to evade.
Morgan: so You do have a list.
I'm finished talking.
Oh-oh, we've got gobs of two-way traffic going on, Which means someone is trying to bounce us out.
Ok, bosola didn't come cheap, So judge schuller had to have made Some pretty substantial transactions.
Got wire transfers to a cayman island bank And that's where the trace ends.
How many, how much? June, he debits numerations of $9,999 Every few days, total of 4, he takes a break for a few weeks Until he makes his final transaction for the same magic number.
Anything less than $10,000 keeps the irs off your trail.
I know that, too.
So, the final payment must be for proof of death.
That makes $50,000 the price of a kill.
He did that 3 times over a period of 12 months, But 2 days ago, He raided his account for $100,000 all in one hit.
He also closed all his accounts And handed his entire estate over To a victims support group.
Someone who isn't suffering from too many brainiacs In the high-tech kitchen just bounced us out.
Good job.
If our calculations are correct, There are 2 more names on that list.
There are.
Every single person on that list deserves justice.
He said deserves, not deserved.
Now look.
Right there.
he looked at his watch for the second time.
Whatever he's waiting for is about to happen.
I don't think you knew emma at all.
At least not the one i knew.
I made an excuse for myself That i wouldn't be welcome at her funeral.
But the truth is, i couldn't face it.
You knowing emma changes nothing.
Oh, but it does.
Emma changed the lives of everyone she knew.
But at least ray and i saw her death For what it truly was-- A tragic accident.
Dan patton was drunk.
He murdered emma, as surely as if he put a gun to her head.
Is that why his photo's not here? You're saving the best for last? We need to locate dan patton now.
The 100,000 must be for some serious extras.
How many other people have you targeted? I want the truth.
I have nothing more to say.
Oh, but i do.
I ran into emma, by chance, A few years ago, At a hotel in manhattan.
I was working on a case, so was she.
I knew she was married.
But i didn't care.
She She wouldn't.
No.
Emma would not do that to me.
You're lying.
Emma I want the truth.
You first.
Dan patton is the last one.
There are no more.
Now, tell me the truth.
That night in manhattan, She told me our connection was so strong, It could never happen only once.
And i was fine with that.
[door closes.]
[car alarm.]
[alarm chirps off.]
Please.
please don't.
i have nothing, no money, nothing.
Nothing--uhh! ohh! [gasping.]
Please, please don't kill me.
This isn't about money.
This is about the murder of emma schuller.
Emma? oh, god.
Emma--that was-- that was an accident.
Please.
no, that was an accident.
Please--please don't-- At least You now know what kind of man you're working with.
What kind of man are you, judge? I've had enough of seeing the guilty Walk free of their sins.
But what about your sins? I got cancer for mine.
Maybe he's still at work.
Workplace said he left for the day.
[knocks.]
dan patton, this is the fbi.
Prentiss: clear! One to the heart, one to the head.
We know who did it.
Bosola has no way of getting off long island.
They're moving judge schuller.
What? He's a high court judge.
It makes it a federal case now.
What if bosola has no intention Of leaving the island? Garcia said the judge was giving his whole estate away? His property, his money.
He closed out his accounts and paid off his utility bills.
He has cancer, but he still has 6 months to live.
Is there a reason he's paying off all his bills now? Not to mention the 100,000 he made As a last and final payment for not one, but 2 kills.
Usually the judge waits for confirmation of death Before making final payment.
Only this time he knew he wouldn't be around to see it.
Here he comes! Oh, there he is.
Judge schuller! Judge schuller is helping us With a federal investigation.
Wait a minute.
what? i can't hear you.
speak up.
Judge schuller, does this have anything to do with The recent rash of murders? I am of the belief that justice has been served.
Morgan: hotch, wait a minute.
what? [reporters all talking at once.]
No comment.
Judge schuller, can you confirm reports I lied.
What? your status in this case? [gunshot, screaming.]
Everybody down! get on the ground! Down on the ground! stay down! [screaming and shouting.]
get down! She was special to you.
I was just thinking When i first met emma, I knew i would love her for the rest of my life.
We were 12 years old.
She always said we were doomed To be star-crossed lovers, Destined to wonder What might have been.
I never slept with her, you know.
That wasn't true What i said to schuller.
That was just to get under his skin, Knock him off his game.
I understand.
I should have married her, though.
When i left the marines, I was recruited by the bureau, Spent a few years on the streets, Got involved with starting the bau.
And before i knew it, A lifetime had gone by.
I hear you.
I missed a life with emma Because i became obsessed with the chase.
With the hunt.
Dave, he's threatening my family.
And we'll get foyet, aaron.
Then what's your point? You have a family.
When all this is over, What are you gonna do To make sure you're not a lonely guy Wondering why you let the purest thing in your life Get away? [car alarm chirps.]
Going somewhere? Hear the joke about the two irishmen-- [groaning.]
Yeah, i heard it.
Didn't find it funny the first time.
Rossi: "i have always found That mercy bears richer fruit than strict justice.
" Abraham lincoln.